---
title: "A national understanding website trying to help us understand theational (2)"
tags: [drafts, notes-fuall]
source: drawio
cell-id: "uMTBItHwGZwq3fhviun5-1616"
page: "Page-1"
---

[[Notes FUALL]]

# A national understanding website trying to help us understand theational (2)

A national understanding website trying to help us understand theational elements of everything. Part of the problem is that we don't yet have a foundational elements of everything. I some aspects like biology or physics were coming from the top down to the fundamentals and trying to discipcle them.  What we do understand the fundamentals of the way in which we started doing that are thought process for getting there, and that's where I'm going to start in philosophy. the fundamentalals of philosophy come down to I would argue is three branches and you can find these three branches through you know all sorts of literature. and I'm going to call them. Reason reality and right, as simple terms. Reason is our ability, the better understand truth, better find truth.  This includes logic, epistemology, methodology, and all the various aspects within those and all three of these together, we could call wisdom Reality methysics, it's our exploration in two What is the nature of existence? Are we stuck in a Maya or Plato's cave or a simulation, and even if we are, how does the how does this layer of reality that we're on? work?  What are the rules? What happens? How can we what knowledge can we ascertain?  I better understand our circumstances in existence? neither of these we we worked on reason over the years and improved it falsifiability from popper wasn't a thing that we had great focus on. until about 100 years ago. Only 100 years ago.  Maybe even starting a little bit more fundamental. philosophy is someone who is a quote unquote lover of wisdom, but lover meanshelia, friend, like they have an intellectual drive and interesting and relationship with with wisdom. and fundamentally, that's asking questions about what is our purpose and why are we here? What is the nature of existence? of the nature of existence is our exploration into reality, we're trying to figure that out, and what we quickly came to know is we don't know much about reality. but we think we can learn more.  How do we come to know the domain of reason, what is reason? How do we what is knowledge epistemology? How do we think about our knowledge to understand relationships?  of what we've come to learn? various aspects of logic and reason. and then we sought out to learn more about existence. We quickly came to realize. that's gonna take a while.  Some of our experiments, some of our explorations, take a very long time and a fair amount of resources. help us understand. You can't do it in a lifetime if you can't do it in a lifetime, you have to set up some sort of ideology. structure of ideas that you you can pass down on next generation and continue the good work of trying to understand reality and doing it in the reasonable way. And this is effectively the right way to live. and there's been various arguments or over the years about what is the end goal are we living well to get to some sort of immortal soul situation or are we living well?  to best work live in harmony with those around us. words are goals. And what are our goals anyway? So if our goals are, I understand the nature of existence, live well so that we can produce more resources to better understand the nature of existence. and people are generally well off enough that they're not going to collapse this ideology, they're gonna help it forward and they're compel it forward the spite all the outside pressures and war and mimetic contamination and all these things they need to be strong.  They need to be happy with the lives they have. So how do we build a society that is strong, happy and has extra resources to understand the reality of existence? That's the fundamental question.  That's the some degree our purpose to understand why we're here and what's going on and to do that requires us to live pretty well needs us to start solving things like resource issues, power issues. and justice issues, we need justice for stability, we need power to make sure that this is not a threatened ideology. And when he resources to make sure that we can have justice and so that we can have progress in our wellbeing and in our exploration of the universe. of reality That's what found that's where foundational understanding starts. laying out that our purpose is exploring reality, becoming better at finding truth, and living well while we do it reality, reason, living the right way while we do it. Reality, reason and right.  And by all blows together what we mean is wisdom. We the foundational understanding of the west starts with the Greeks. as an ideology, it is the foundation of who we are and what we're working towards, and not only is it more most of these ideas found in other cultures you can find very, very similar ideas in Buddhism. and Confucian.ism. But you end up getting to that ideology, what we value, what we're aiming at. isn't entirely aligned, and when you're aiming at something very, very, very far away understanding of reality, and the and the right way to live you're off by one degree in your aim over time. those two lines can feel very far away.  Those two paths of your projectile feel very far away. I'm worrying aiming at something that's taken us so far thousands of years. It's very easy to collapse again.  So then within foundational understanding my knowledge and expertise, relates to how do we live the right way? Informed by a various aspects of exploration and reality, which are mostly the social sciences, the humanities, what social structures should we have, what should they look like? How do we make sure we maintain this right way path?  How do we make sure we our challenging and reasoned the knowledge of the ideas that we think our knowledge, and our explorations in reality specifically around psychology, sociology, economics, So while my foundation will go from the foundation of ideology or the core Western ideology, it will continue a path and then veer towards this tree of knowledges right side, an exploration into ics in relationship to the humanities. and fighting in the right way of being and living, it is not going to or at least my divin ofus is doesn't get into the harder sciences. There for a bit of math, maybe. Logic.  Reason. And that is something I would strongly encourage people that I want to work on this project. join me in. Let's fill the foundational understanding everything.  Let's build this clear ideology. that people can poke at and reflect on and change if they need to because our aim was slightly off, let's say at the goal so that we can build this better future. This better understanding of reality in this better way of getting the truth and communicating that across time glad to have any of you on your journey as we move forward, and that's what we're doing. Foundational understanding of everything.  FU all Thank you.
