---
title: "One of the interesting things about progressive versus conservative is that"
tags: [progressive-conservative]
source: drawio
cell-id: "uMTBItHwGZwq3fhviun5-1685"
page: "Page-1"
---

[[Progressivism vs Conservatism]]

# One of the interesting things about progressive versus conservative is that

One of the interesting things about progressive versus conservative is that overtime conservatives benefit from the progress and seek to conserve what we learned in trying to progress. The problem will often end up becoming that we end up conserving, uh what people with power have. So people with power are often more likely to be conservative because they're the ones that benefited from the current status quo status quo is what progressivism is largely trying to change.  So even if we regress to some degree, but people benefited enough to have power over preventing or adjusting the possibility of future change, we can regress and stabilize can serve that regression because the people that benefited from that regression now have more power to stop any other potential progression. Of course, it also works the other way, where if you have this fly we have progress, what you're doing is progressing, realizing what you want to conserve that becomes sacred and doing our best to conserve that while continuing to add more and more progress. So conservatism is, well, largely about conserving things, and that ends up being directly related to who has power to conserve or progress things.  This is going to relate to uh very strongly the authoritarian versus liberal spectrum as those kind of areas where power lie are going to relate to rather than progressive is more about how we should use power, uh liberal versus story about who has power and who should have power and how and that will be the difference. And then we'll finally get the collective versus individualist, which is effectively, you know, uh progress for who, who is considered liberal in our collective? Everyone in the world gets to a problem of not just repugnant conclusion, but an intolerance of intolerance problem.  So now we need to discuss and move towards creating boundaries around who has what liberties and multiple layers, looking at something like an ecological systems theory, where we have multiple layers of our collectives, and they get different amounts effectively of liberty or opportunity or uh collective shared wealth, um, right? Like even simple things along the lines of like, how do you deal with smokers when you're paying for health care? from a federal government?  Not just smoking, but all the little differences that people might take in risk to their lives in well being, skydiving, right, like should people pay the medical builds of skydivers as a group how much risk can the individual take that the collective might have to pay for on average? And that on average doesn't really work because you have should be assessing everyone individually individual liberty, while all of us agreeing to paying for it collectively, so we can all live our happier lives. The simple version is just going to be effectively letting people to some reasonable extent, do what they want, but defining what a reasonable extent is going to be the problem, the boundaries of the collectives, what's acceptable, what's not, and different layers of it, you could in theory, let some one smoke as much as they want, but tax them more for it. um, which could either just come from a direct tax from the cigarettes as we do now, or it could come from other things.
