{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2821
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 "<i>The liberal arts are those subjects or skills that in classical antiquity were considered essential for a free person (liberalis, 'worthy of a free person') to know in order to take an active part in civic life, something that (for ancient Greece) included participating in public debate, defending oneself in court, serving on juries, and most importantly, military service.</i> \
\'97 Ernst Robert Curtius, European Literature and the Latin Middle Ages\
\
The primary tool of those arts was \'97 and should still be \'97 civil discourse. Let's start with trying to understand what that is. "\
"Discourse means to run about. The Latin discursus \'97 from dis-, ""apart,"" and currere, ""to run"" \'97 was originally physical: scattering in different directions. By Late Latin it described the exchange of words between people. By Medieval Latin it had become the term for the distinctly human mode of reasoning: the mind moving step by step from one known thing to another, from premises to conclusions. Aquinas made the distinction sharp: God understands whole; humans must chase truth step by laborious step. The mind running between ideas to connect them is not a deficiency \'97 it is the distinctly human way of knowing. \
\
Shakespeare still used the word this way \'97 Hamlet's ""beast that wants discourse of reason"" is an animal that lacks the capacity for reasoned thought, not one that lacks conversation. Only in the 1550s did ""discourse"" begin to mean communication of thought in words. \
\
Today the word has diluted further. ""Discourse"" is applied to everything from academic treatises to social media arguments. The internet era has even produced ""the Discourse"" as a proper noun \'97 meaning ongoing, heated, often unproductive public argument \'97 which is essentially a degradation of the term into something closer to its opposite.\
\
By discourse I mean all three of the original senses at once: the running about of ideas between minds, in pursuit of truth. Not talk. Not performance. The effortful, sequential labor of reasoning conducted together. And this running about is itself a feature of what I'll describe as the three dimensions of discourse \'97 it is not one way of pursuing truth but three, and the pursuit often requires running between them."\
"Civil means befitting a citizen. From the Latin civilis, ""relating to a citizen, pertaining to public life,"" the root is civis, ""citizen,"" connected to civitas \'97 not merely a political unit but the community of citizens that constitutes a city-state. The deeper Proto-Indo-European root *kei- carries the sense of making a home. Even in Latin, civilis already extended to ""popular, affable, courteous"" \'97 the slippage between civic duty and mere agreeableness is ancient. But the politeness sense did not dominate until much later.\
\
The word entered English in the late fourteenth century meaning ""relating to civil law or life."" By the 1550s it had acquired the sense ""not barbarous, civilized."" The purely social meaning \'97 civil as mere politeness \'97 developed later still and gradually became dominant. Merriam-Webster now captures the degradation: ""civil often suggests little more than the avoidance of overt rudeness."" That is a long fall from conduct befitting a citizen.\
\
<i>I have endured what no living mortal on this earth has borne \'97 I've lifted up to my own lips and kissed the hands of the man who killed my son.</i>\
\'97 Priam, The Trojan King, to Achilles. Iliad XXIV (trans. Ian Johnston)\
\
Priam does not suppress his anguish. He carries it into the tent of his enemy and, through it, achieves what force could not. This is civility at full strength \'97 not the avoidance of rudeness but the maturity to direct rage and grief toward understanding. Priam wept before Achilles; Achilles wept with him. The exchange was no less civil for its intensity.\
\
Civility means that positions are argued genuinely, that benefit of the doubt is given toward the intentions of other parties, and that participants hold a willingness to change their own beliefs while trying to change the beliefs of others. This exchange can be hot, intense, and emotional. Being overly sensitive to that heat does just as much harm to civility as being aggressive.\
\
We named our own species Homo sapiens \'97 the wise ones. Our capacity for reasoning beyond instinct toward wisdom is our defining trait. Civility is what allows that capacity to function between people \'97 the maturity required to sustain shared life, the conduct worthy of citizens who have chosen to settle together and govern in common."\
"Civil discourse, then, is not polite conversation. It is the exchange of ideas as citizens \'97 the activity that free people engage in to govern shared life together. It is discussion intended to enhance understanding and, where possible, to resolve disagreement and navigate uncertainty. Its topics can span from how everything in the cosmos relates to each other to the proper use of a single term.\
\
It is likely to be long-lasting and may require multiple mediums. Significant progress can be made quickly through in-person exchange, but writing allows evidence to be linked and arguments to be restated, clarified, and amended outside the heat of the moment. Time between sessions matters too \'97 reflection is not a pause in discourse but part of its machinery. Deep topics are rarely resolved in a single conversation."\
"Discourse moves along three interrelated dimensions: Deliberation, Dialogue, and Debate. Each depends on the classical trivium (Grammar, Logic, and Rhetoric \'97 the foundation of the liberal arts) in different proportions. \
\
\'95 Deliberation for shared meaning \'97 establishing facts and definitions. Primarily grammatical work guided by logic\
\'95 Dialogue for understanding \'97 reasoning through the relationships between ideas.\
\'95 Debate for resolution \'97 weighing established understanding against values, risks, and costs. Logical work guided by rhetoric: efficiency of articulation becomes essential as the stakes sharpen.\
\
Logic runs through all three; Grammar anchors the earlier stages; Rhetoric refines the later ones.\
\
A productive discourse will generally transition fluidly \'97 or run about \'97 between these dimensions. Complex topics demand the iterative clarification of deliberation, the connective understanding of dialogue, and the adjudication of competing claims in debate. The structure I offer here is not a rigid sequence but a way of recognizing how discourse flows and where it might break down."\
"Deliberation is the dimension of shared meaning \'97 the slow, often painstaking work of establishing facts and definitions.\
\
Grammar, in this context, does not mean the structures and symbols of language. It means clarity of message and intent \'97 the domain of semantics and pragmatics rather than phonetics or syntax. Two skills matter especially: the ability to attach precise meaning to words (semantics) and the ability to understand what another participant actually means, beyond the literal content of their words (pragmatic competence). \
\
This dimension strives to build a foundation of definitions, facts, evidence, and confidence in evidence toward a claim. Even between two good-faith participants, a shaky foundation can prevent meaningful resolution. Clarifying that a disagreement is about facts \'97 rather than about values or relationships \'97 can be just as important as resolving it.\
\
Today, semantics is often dismissed as trivial, or when conflict arises in its domain, it is treated as an obstacle too annoying to overcome. This dismissal is one of our culture's most significant failures in creating civil discourse. When people attach even slightly different concepts to the same term, they talk past each other \'97 causing frustration, confusion, and anger that eventually kills the civility and the desire to continue.\
\
On the other side sits pragmatic competence \'97 the ability to understand what another participant actually means, beyond the literal content of their words. Semantics is nuanced and time-consuming, and it is often worth debating. But progress can frequently be made through a temporary agreement to attach a term to a concept and move forward, trusting that participants are operating in good faith about what they mean."\
Civility in deliberation: When facts require significant expertise, or when terminology is still under debate but isn't the core issue, tentatively granting premises for the sake of progress is generally civil. The clarity and impact of an idea can sometimes be easier to grasp in dialogue, so the dimensions often work together even here.\
"Tools:\
\'95 Hopping into dialogue: understanding the relationship of facts is often needed to reach consensus on those facts themselves, even before a full dialogic exchange.\
\'95 Citing sources to ground contested claims.\
\'95 Asking for examples rather than definitions: when abstract definitions stall, concrete examples of what a term includes and excludes often surface the actual disagreement faster.\
\'95 Establishing confidence levels: explicitly distinguishing between certainty, high confidence, and best guess prevents tentative claims from being treated as settled ground.\
\'95 Naming the type of disagreement: is this about facts, the meaning of a term, the reliability of a source, or what counts as evidence? Identifying which of these is actually contested can break deadlocks quickly."\
"Pitfalls:\
\'95 Failing to define important terms.\
\'95 Discourse collapsing into a lecture when one side has significantly more knowledge of the topic.\
\'95 Inability to create consensus resulting in a loop: ""no, it isn't"" / ""yes, it is."" When this happens, hop into dialogue: why isn't it? Why is it?\
\'95 Equivocation: using the same word in two different senses within a single argument without noticing the shift. Distinct from two people attaching different concepts to the same word \'97 equivocation happens within one person's reasoning.\
\'95 Appealing to dictionary definitions as authority: citing a dictionary as though it settles what a word means in context. Dictionaries record usage; they do not determine meaning in discourse.\
\'95 Scope creep: the conversation expanding to encompass increasingly tangential definitions and facts until the original question is buried. Digressions are natural in deliberation, but they must return to the main thread.\
\'95 Treating all claims as equally in need of evidence: demanding the same level of justification for uncontroversial claims as for contested ones bogs down deliberation and can be used in bad faith to prevent progress."\
"Dialogue is the dimension of understanding \'97 reasoning through the relationships between ideas.\
\
Logic, in this context, is the process of understanding how facts and ideas relate to one another \'97 the means of reasoning, classification, inference, and emergence. It is how we determine what is true, or how confident we can be that something is true. Dialogue is primarily logical work, guided by grammar.\
\
Dialogue connects and synthesizes the facts and definitions established in deliberation, exploring how they tie into the core propositions of the discourse itself. Often this looks like participants taking turns thinking through these relationships, checking for agreement or surfacing disagreements. Dialogue will frequently loop back into deliberation as new terms and claims emerge. It is especially important during dialogue that the listener focus on denotation, giving almost no regard to connotation \'97 because reasoning about relationships requires precision, and connotation introduces associative noise that can distort logical connections.\
\
One of the distinctions between a lecture and discourse is that participants in dialogue often come from different backgrounds, understandings or different areas of knowledge, each trying to see what can be gained from the other."\
"Civility in dialogue: Recognition of authority is important in discourse on deep topics. Experts may hold different understandings of facts and their relationships. Giving experts the benefit of the doubt until there is reason not to is part of civility \'97 though this does not mean their claims should go unexplained, unchallenged, or unchecked.\
\
Dialogue often runs into the boundary where what we know meets what we do not. Aristotle distinguished between episteme \'97 systematic knowledge that can be demonstrated \'97 and techne, the knowledge of how to make or do, which involves judgment in the face of particulars that cannot be fully systematized. \
\
There are true technicians of every field, those who have studied a domain so deeply that their understanding allows them to develop strong intuition into the unknown. McClintock saw genetic transposition decades before molecular biology caught up. Wegener saw continental drift fifty years before plate tectonics provided the mechanism.\
\
Recall the distinction Aquinas drew: discursive reasoning is the step-by-step labor of moving from premise to conclusion, while intuitive understanding grasps truth immediately and whole. Discourse is the tool for most of us, most of the time. But those who have spent years within a domain can develop a kind of sight \'97 similar to perceiving illusory contours connecting things \'97 where their intuition runs ahead of what can yet be formally proven.\
\
Yet a credential does not make an expert, and few experts develop the depth of intuition that makes them truly reliable technicians of the unknown. Even still we must rely on these technicians, else the speed of progress comes to a crawl. They are always at the edge, pushing understanding forward with a more accurate sense of what lies ahead than others possess. There is a great deal of unknown and gray in any field, and recognizing this is part of intellectual honesty."\
"Tools:\
\'95 Restating the other participant's premises to confirm understanding.\
\'95 Assuming a statement is subtle until shown otherwise.\
\'95 Assuming a counterintuitive claim is intentional until shown otherwise.\
\'95 Reasonable benefit of the doubt in authority.\
\'95 Analogy and metaphor.\
\'95 Thought experiments and hypotheticals: testing whether a proposed relationship holds by imagining scenarios where conditions change. ""If X were true, what would we expect to also be true?""\
\'95 Asking ""what would change your mind?"" \'97 this surfaces the actual structure of someone's reasoning and helps identify whether the discourse should stay in dialogue or move to debate.\
\'95 Checking for unstated premises: much reasoning proceeds from assumptions that aren't made explicit. Making them explicit is how you find the actual point of disagreement rather than arguing about conclusions that follow from different hidden assumptions.\
\'95 Engaging with the understanding that you may be wrong \'97 and that a mistake by your partner is not your victory."\
"Pitfalls:\
\'95 Logical fallacies \'97 mistakes in understanding relationships between facts or ideas.\
\'95 Confirmation bias \'97 only recognizing relationships that support existing beliefs while failing to notice or test those that would undermine them.\
\'95 False analogy \'97 analogies are powerful but break down when the structural similarity between two domains doesn't actually hold. Since analogy is a tool of dialogue, recognizing its failure mode is essential.\
\'95 Treating absence of evidence as evidence of absence \'97 concluding that because a relationship hasn't been demonstrated, it doesn't exist. McClintock's transposition wasn't wrong just because it couldn't yet be formally proven.\
\'95 One side pushing for a resolution of ignorance as a way of dismissing authority or references they distrust, whether that distrust is valid or not."\
"Resolutions in dialogue:\
\'95 Resolution of ignorance: Both parties recognize that not enough is known about the facts or their relationships to move toward weighing values and actions.\
\'95 Resolution of a new path: Both parties realize that their prior beliefs don't align with what is discovered through dialogue, and both adopt a new position.\
\'95 Resolution of partial clarity: Participants clarify some relationships but recognize others remain open. This is the most common outcome of real dialogue \'97 progress has been made, the remaining questions are identified, and the discourse can either continue or move into debate on what has been established so far."\
"Debate is the dimension of resolution \'97 weighing competing claims to move beliefs closer to truth.\
\
Rhetoric, in this context, is efficiency in grammar and logic for the purpose of articulating ideas clearly. I do not mean the assessment of any effective means of persuasion, as not all means of persuasion are civil. Persuasion through pathos alone is actively unreasonable. Rhetoric is the refinement that allows complex reasoning to be communicated without loss. Debate is logical work guided by rhetoric: by this stage, language has been refined through the prior dimensions, allowing for eloquent articulation \'97 by which I mean language that efficiently carries the denotation of ideas with as little misinterpretation as possible. I do not mean poetic. I do not mean rhythmic preaching.\
\
Debate is where we weigh competing claims against values, risks, and costs, refining what we believe through rational prioritization. Done well, debate brings collective understanding closer to truth and enables us to justify beliefs as knowledge."\
Changing our beliefs is difficult and can lead to intense feelings. Intensity that surfaces as anger or frustration \'97 even when the exchange is otherwise civil \'97 is often directed at the self, at past teachers, or at the surprise of encountering genuinely new information. When discourse flows back into dialogue or deliberation, that lingering intensity can be harmful. Taking a beat to allow participants to collect themselves is often necessary for moving forward. Changing someone's belief or having yours changed is not a victory over the other person \'97 it is a cooperative win against being less wrong and toward creating clarity. That is the purpose of discourse after all.\
"Tools:\
\'95 Steel-manning: assume the opponent is making the best version of their argument until you know they aren't. The progress of ideas deserves better than preying on poor mistakes in rhetoric.\
\'95 A break for reflection and analysis, especially when transitioning between dialogue and debate.\
\'95 Providing reference or summary of the deliberation and dialogue for any audience whose pragmatic competence may suffer from those exchanges being ""off screen"" or tediously long.\
\'95 Identifying what would change each side's position \'97 in debate this is about values and priorities rather than facts. ""Under what circumstances would you weigh this differently?""\
\'95 Separating empirical claims from value claims: failure to distinguish which is being contested leads to arguments that can never resolve because one side thinks they're arguing facts while the other is arguing values."\
"Pitfalls:\
\'95 Attempts at persuasion through pathos. <a href=""https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Emotive_conjugation"">Russell Conjugations</a> and similar. \
\'95 Relying on ethos when logos can be reached.\
\'95 Straw-manning \'97 the fallacy most likely to arise in debate, as increasingly efficient language allows for easier misinterpretation.\
\'95 Moving the goalposts \'97 shifting the criteria for what would constitute persuasion after those criteria have been met.\
\'95 Sunk cost in positions \'97 continuing to defend a position because of the effort invested in arguing it rather than because the evidence supports it."\
"Resolutions:\
\'95 Resolution of persuasion: Agreement is reached.\
\'95 Resolution of conditional persuasion: Persuasion predicated on statements from authority or on claims we have some confidence in but are not yet certain of. Someone can be convinced that something is more likely without being convinced it is likely.\
\'95 Resolution of boundaries: When persuasion is not achievable, we strive to better understand the bounds of disagreement and what changes in circumstances or knowledge could create agreement.\
\'95 Resolution of incommensurability: The participants discover they cannot agree on foundational facts or definitions sufficient to proceed. The discourse ends not in agreement or persuasion but in a clear articulation of where and why agreement is impossible. This is distinct from a resolution of boundaries \'97 it is the recognition that the ground itself cannot be shared, and that no amount of further discourse will change that without new evidence or experience outside the conversation."}