{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2821
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia-Bold;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;
\f3\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia-Italic;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\'00;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid2\'01\'01;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa373\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Foundations
\f1\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa373\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf0 What is existence and what is our place in it?
\f1\fs24 \

\f2\fs29\fsmilli14667 \'95 Why is there something rather than nothing?
\f1\fs24 \

\f2\fs29\fsmilli14667 \'95 What is the purpose of existence/life/consciousness?
\f1\fs24 \

\f2\fs29\fsmilli14667 \'95 What is the nature of reality?
\f1\fs24 \

\f2\fs29\fsmilli14667 And similar questions that most other questions regress back into.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa373\partightenfactor0

\f3\i\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf0 Value: Acceptance of Ignorance
\f1\i0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa373\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf0 We do not yet have the answers to these questions. From this foundational ignorance grows the rationalist motive and core value. The discovery of truth.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa373\partightenfactor0

\f3\i\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf0 \'93The ancient Oracle said that I was the wisest of all the Greeks. It is because I alone, of all the Greeks, know that I know nothing.\'94
\f2\i0  \'96 Socrates
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa373\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf0 How we come to know \'96 Methodology (epistemology, logic)
\f1\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa373\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf0 Outline (WIP)
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f2\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	1	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What is knowledge? Definition of knowledge.\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\pardeftab720\li1440\fi-1440\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl1\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	1	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Justified true belief \'96 Plato\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	2	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Scientific method: Reason and empiricism together\'a0\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	3	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Theories of truth, correspondence, coherence, etc (might not be worth including)\'a0\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	4	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Societal knowledge vs individual knowledge\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\pardeftab720\li1440\fi-1440\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl1\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	1	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Reliable sources of knowledge and how we decide to trust\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\pardeftab720\li1440\fi-1440\sa320\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl1\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	2	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Personal experience, logic, probabilistic reasoning, etc. to confirm trust\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa373\partightenfactor0

\f3\i \cf0 Some fundamental things that are known
\f1\i0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa373\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf0 \'95 There is something rather than nothing
\f1\fs24 \

\f2\fs29\fsmilli14667 \'95 We are capable of learning truths about existence
\f1\fs24 \

\f2\fs29\fsmilli14667 \'95 We can improve our well-being
\f1\fs24 \

\f2\fs29\fsmilli14667 \'95 Learning about existence allows us to create technology to improve our well-being and learn further truths about existence
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa373\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf0 Axiology (ethics, aesthetics)
\f1\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa373\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf0 So we exist, we can improve our well-being. From this truth grows the humanist motive. The improvement of well-being. 
\f3\i Value: Freedom
\f1\i0\fs24 \

\f2\fs29\fsmilli14667 Has a very close relationship with well-being. Increasing freedoms will with great frequency and impact increase well-being. Freedom in then widely sought after as a value for humanists.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa373\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf0 Feedback loops, cyclical relationships.
\f1\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa373\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf0 Axiology and methodology feedback into metaphysics. We don\'92t know of a grand purpose, nor why there is existence. But we can rationally assign ourselves the purpose of discovering truth and living well. Discovering truths feeds into humanism. and humanism feeds into discovering truths. When society is correctly grounded in these values, these virtues, we have a powerful positive feedback loop that has allowed us to see the greatest gains both in well-being and our pursuit of truth.
\f1\fs24 \

\f2\fs29\fsmilli14667 These are the values (truth and freedom) of the great classical philosophers, the enlightenment, of what America and other revolutions at the end of the 1700\'92s were trying to base the restructuring of their societies upon.
\f1\fs24 \

\f2\fs29\fsmilli14667 What then have we learned about how we should structure society around these values?
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \strokec2 \
}