{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2821
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial-BoldMT;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial-ItalicMT;
\f3\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;\f4\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial-BoldItalicMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red10\green40\blue80;\red24\green25\blue26;
\red107\green78\blue2;\red82\green0\blue1;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c2745\c21569\c38824;\cssrgb\c12549\c12941\c13333;
\cssrgb\c49804\c37647\c0;\cssrgb\c40000\c0\c0;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid3}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\fi960\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs48 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Introduction to Philosophy
\f1\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\f2\i\fs28 \cf0 By J.T. James
\f1\i0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf0 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 	Traditionally introductions to subjects focus on the history of the field, evolution of ideas, and people that contributed to them, while often being too specific or too broad with the information presented. This neglects the fundamentals, the most valuable ideas, and the unsolved problems get insufficient focus. \u8232 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi960\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf0 \strokec2 Highest value ideas: Value in exploring the truths of existence - creating a value in discovery, acceptance of ignorance, tools discovering truths, and considering how we should all live together.\'a0
\f1\fs24 \

\f3\fs29\fsmilli14667 I think if we just walk people through the high value questions and ideas can create and can easily inspire self-discovery of further ideas, or the sources of them. Today\'92s technology no longer requires us to slog through rote memorization of history as reference materials never far from our fingertips.\'a0
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf0 \strokec2 Introduction to Philosophy
\f1\b0\fs24 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf0 Philosophy is the study of fundamental questions about existence. \uc0\u8232 Seeking answers to 3 main areas: \u8232 What is Reality and how does it work?\u8232 How do we refine our Reasoning to better find truth?\u8232 What is the Right way to live, what are our goals, and what is the best way to achieve them? \u8232 \u8232 \cf3 \strokec3 Physics 
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf4 \strokec4 \uc0\u9702 
\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf0 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf5 \strokec5 Reason 
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \'95
\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf0 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf6 \strokec6 Ethics 
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf4 \strokec4 \uc0\u8227 
\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf0 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf3 \strokec3 Questions like: \uc0\u8232 \u9702  Why is there something rather than nothing?\u8232  \'a0 - How does existence function?\u8232  \'a0 - What is life?
\f1\fs24 \cf0 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf3 \strokec3 \'a0\'a0\'a0-\'a0\'a0
\f1\fs24 \cf0 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf5 \strokec5 \'95 How do we come to know?\uc0\u8232  \'a0 - What is knowledge anyway?\cf3 \strokec3 \uc0\u8232 \cf6 \strokec6 \uc0\u8227  Why are we here?\u8232  \'a0 - What is our purpose?\u8232 \u8227  How should we structure society to fulfill a general purpose?\cf3 \strokec3 \uc0\u8232 
\f1\fs24 \cf0 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf0 We don\'92t have answers to these questions or even much simpler ones. So how do we start to answer these questions?\uc0\u8232 \u8232 Over time various ideologies have been created to try and provide these answers. \u8232 \u8232 Humanism is generally the one we would call the most advanced, informed by science\u8232 \u8232 Rationality or Reason became our methods for trying to solve questions around how to get answers. Logic, empiricism, \u8232 \u8232 The sciences starting with natural philosophy (or now physics) became \cf3 \strokec3 \uc0\u8232 \cf0 \strokec2 Striving to answer these questions and the many that follow is the \'91first order values\'92 of Philosophy and all the societies birthed from it, from the Greeks to the United States of America.\uc0\u8232 \u8232 Various times throughout history societies have worked to answer these questions, and at least 2,500 years later we don\'92t have good answers. These are hard questions to answer and many of us are still trying to. \u8232 \u8232 Recognizing and then accepting our ignorance is something we generally ascribe to be a fundamental basis of wisdom. \u8232 \u8232 [See Plato\'92s Apology]\u8232 \u8232 \u8232 \u8232 Accurately assessing how much we know and how well we think gives us the ability to effectively think about how to broaden our knowledge. \u8232 \u8232 Our wisdom is limited by our ability to accurately assess our knowledge. \u8232 \u8232 \u8232 \u8232 For those who value these questions and the culture and progress that has come from them striving to continue the work of answering them in part answers our purpose. To recognize our ignorance\u8232 \u8232 \u8232 or many who follow the Western Traditions of Philosophy e\'92ve made good headway on a variety of these questions but none of them are fully answered. We are still too ignorant of the nature of existence (including ourselves), the most effective ways to discover truths, and we still disagree on various aspects of our purpose and how to structure society to achieve a purpose even when there is alignment there. \u8232 \u8232 The fundamentals of a field studying fundamental questions relate to \u8232 
\f1\fs24 \

\f3\fs29\fsmilli14667 We don\'92t have answers to these questions or even much simpler ones. So how do we start to answer these questions?\uc0\u8232 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf0 \strokec2 Question: What is the prime question?
\f1\b0\fs24 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li960\fi-960\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf0 \ul \ulc0 \strokec2 Answer\ulnone : Where did we come from, why are we here, what\'92s our purpose, what\'92s our meaning, etc?
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf0 \strokec2 Question: What\'92s the answer?
\f1\b0\fs24 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf0 	\ul \strokec2 Answer\ulnone \strokec2 : We don\'92t know\'a0
\f1\fs24 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\li960\fi-960\partightenfactor0

\f2\i\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf0 \strokec2 Point out how important that answer is. How we need to accept that answer as valid. It is the impetus. It is the motivation of a everything that follows, discovery is the motive of philosophy.
\f1\i0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li960\fi-960\partightenfactor0

\f2\i\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf0 \strokec2 An answer of ignorance should be met by valuing the wisdom instead of shaming the \'91stupidity\'92 of the answerer.\'a0
\f1\i0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf0 \strokec2 Question: So...how do we come to know?
\f1\b0\fs24 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\i\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf0 \strokec2 \'a0	
\f3\i0 \ul Answer\ulnone \strokec2 : Reason and then the scientific method.
\f1\fs24 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\li960\fi-960\partightenfactor0

\f2\i\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf0 \strokec2 I assume the student already has at least passing familiar with science. However, most people college educated and beyond seem to have very little understanding of what reason actually is.\'a0
\f1\i0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li960\fi-960\partightenfactor0

\f2\i\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf0 \strokec2 A incomplete but simple definition of reason is simply logic. By logic we mean the process of understanding the relationship between ideas and facts, and sometimes finding new facts or even inventions from those relationships.\'a0
\f1\i0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li960\fi-960\partightenfactor0

\f2\i\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf0 \strokec2 It might be worth mentioning that the scientific method is somewhat living. It has developed over time and may continue to develop.
\f1\i0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li960\fi-960\partightenfactor0

\f2\i\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf0 \strokec2 This introduction course would spin off into a course more formally on reason and on the philosophy of science or generally epistemology.\'a0
\f1\i0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \strokec2 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf0 \strokec2 Abstractly accurate useful fiction on the history of philosophy from there:\'a0
\f1\b0\fs24 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf0 \'95 We tasked some of our philosophers with observing what happens around us, we call them natural scientists and philosophers, and they have various fields they divide themselves further into.\'a0
\f1\fs24 \
\

\f3\fs29\fsmilli14667 \'95 We tasked another group to work with them and think through the relationship of the observations, we call them epistemologist, and have a specificialization relating to the philosophy of science.\'a0
\f1\fs24 \
\

\f3\fs29\fsmilli14667 \'95 Not long after the natural scientists set out to do their task it became clear that science and epistemology are hard and going to take a long time. Understanding the forces of nature will also require of us to create a stable society that encourages and invests in discovery.
\f1\fs24 \
\

\f3\fs29\fsmilli14667 \'95 This new task requires us to think about an additional area of existence, structuring society. The social sciences and humanities work to help us better understand how to structure society and help us enjoy our time while alive (improve human well-being). Enjoyment of our time is also highly related to societal stability.\'a0
\f1\fs24 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf0 \strokec2 An early idea of how to structure society
\f1\b0\fs24 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf0 The Republic
\f1\fs24 \

\f3\fs29\fsmilli14667 Old philosophers noticed that we aren\'92t all equal. Some of us are better at some things than others and as such suggested:
\f1\fs24 \

\f3\fs29\fsmilli14667 \'95 Those of us who are the most just, wise, and suited for reason should lead society
\f1\fs24 \

\f3\fs29\fsmilli14667 \'95 Those of us the more martially inclined should protect society and maintain its order
\f1\fs24 \

\f3\fs29\fsmilli14667 \'95 The rest of us should labor to produce for society	
\f1\fs24 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf0 \strokec2 Sorting Problem
\f1\b0\fs24 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf0 We\'92ve come to learn that there are many problems with this idea, but one of the more significant is that we are really bad at recognizing and sorting people based on their talents, potential, and likelihood of being a just and wise person.
\f1\fs24 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf0 \strokec2 Capitalism and Democracy as an answer to the sorting problem
\f1\b0\fs24 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf0 We are currently so bad at sorting people we\'92ve decided to structure our society to enable people to sort themselves.The current general idea is to strive to build a world with equal opportunity and leave the sorting to the seemingly naturally progressive forces of the market and opinions democratic citizen.\'a0
\f1\fs24 \
\

\f3\fs29\fsmilli14667 EOL...
\f1\fs24 \
\

\f3\fs29\fsmilli14667 Following lectures, activities, or projects: epistemology and the philosophy of science and structuring society.
\f1\fs24 \
\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs40 \cf0 \strokec2 Introduction to 
\f4\i Foundational Understanding
\f0\i0 : Philosophy from the Top Down
\f1\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs30\fsmilli15333 \cf0 Most introductions to philosophy start at the ground level, digging through the dirt of history\'97names, dates, and ideas stacked like bricks. They focus on who said what and when, asking you to \'93think critically\'94 about whether each brick holds up. It\'92s a bottom-up slog, and by the time you reach the roof\'97the big, useful ideas\'97you\'92re too buried in the muck to care. I want to flip that. This project, tentatively called 
\f2\i Foundational Understanding
\f3\i0 , takes a top-down view. We\'92ll start with the highest-value questions and tools philosophy offers, then work our way to the roots. Why? Because today, with knowledge at our fingertips, we don\'92t need to memorize the past to stand on its shoulders\'97we just need a clear view of what matters.
\f1\fs24 \strokec2 \

\f3\fs30\fsmilli15333 \strokec2 Philosophy isn\'92t a museum of dead ideas; it\'92s a living tree. Its roots are the primal questions we all ask, its trunk the tools we\'92ve built to wrestle with them, and its branches the sciences, societies, and lives we cultivate. My goal isn\'92t to catalog every leaf but to show you the structure\'97how it holds together and why it\'92s worth climbing. We\'92ll begin with the biggest question of all, then follow the trunk to the tools and branches that shape our world. Along the way, I\'92ll ask you to join me\'97Socratically, if you will\'97because philosophy isn\'92t about being told; it\'92s about wondering together.
\f1\fs24 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs30\fsmilli15333 \cf0 \strokec2 The Prime Question
\f1\b0\fs24 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs30\fsmilli15333 \cf0 \strokec2 Let\'92s start at the top: What\'92s the point of it all? Where did we come from? Why are we here? What\'92s our purpose? Strip away the phrasing, and it\'92s the same restless itch: What does it mean to exist?
\f1\fs24 \strokec2 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa400\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\b\fs30\fsmilli15333 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Answer
\f3\b0 : We don\'92t know.
\fs29\fsmilli14667 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs30\fsmilli15333 \cf0 That\'92s not a cop-out\'97it\'92s the spark. \'93We don\'92t know\'94 isn\'92t a dead end; it\'92s the wind in philosophy\'92s sails. Accepting our ignorance isn\'92t shameful; it\'92s wise. It\'92s the starting line for every discovery, every question that follows. Shame the asker, and you kill the quest. Celebrate the honesty, and you ignite a fire. This is where philosophy begins: not with answers, but with the courage to admit we\'92re in the dark\'97and the drive to light a match.
\f1\fs24 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs30\fsmilli15333 \cf0 \strokec2 How Do We Come to Know?
\f1\b0\fs24 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs30\fsmilli15333 \cf0 \strokec2 So, if we don\'92t know, how do we find out?
\f1\fs24 \strokec2 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa400\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0
\f0\b\fs30\fsmilli15333 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Answer
\f3\b0 : Reason, and its sharpest edge, the scientific method.
\fs29\fsmilli14667 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs30\fsmilli15333 \cf0 Reason is the art of connecting dots\'97ideas, facts, observations\'97through logic, scrutiny, and a dash of intuition. It\'92s how we test what\'92s true, spot what\'92s shaky, and sometimes stumble onto something new. The scientific method builds on that: a living, evolving playbook for turning guesses into knowledge. It\'92s not static\'97centuries of thinkers have honed it, and it\'92ll keep growing. If you\'92ve made it through high school, you\'92ve likely met science. Reason, though? Even the college-educated often miss it, mistaking it for opinion or gut feeling. Here, we\'92ll treat it as the backbone it is\'97simple enough to grasp, deep enough to explore.
\f1\fs24 \strokec2 \

\f3\fs30\fsmilli15333 \strokec2 This question splits our tree\'92s trunk into branches. One leads to epistemology\'97how we know what we know\'97and its cousin, the philosophy of science. They\'92re the roots of every lab coat and telescope. But knowing takes time, and time demands stability. That\'92s where another branch grows: how we live together while chasing truth.\uc0\u8232 
\f1\fs24 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs30\fsmilli15333 \cf0 \strokec2 Building a World to Chase Truth
\f1\b0\fs24 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs30\fsmilli15333 \cf0 \strokec2 Task some philosophers with observing the world\'97call them natural scientists\'97and they\'92ll split into fields like physics or biology. Task others with unpicking how those observations hold together\'97call them epistemologists\'97and they\'92ll sharpen our tools. But early on, we realized: understanding nature is slow, hard work. It needs a society that doesn\'92t just survive but thrives\'97one that invests in discovery and keeps the lights on.
\f1\fs24 \strokec2 \

\f3\fs30\fsmilli15333 \strokec2 So philosophy branched again: How do we structure a society that works? The social sciences and humanities took up the challenge\'97partly to keep us stable, partly to make life worth living. Enjoyment and stability aren\'92t separate; a society that crumbles can\'92t ponder the stars.
\f1\fs24 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs30\fsmilli15333 \cf0 \strokec2 An Early Sketch: 
\f4\i The Republic
\f1\i0\b0\fs24 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs30\fsmilli15333 \cf0 \strokec2 Old thinkers noticed we\'92re not all the same. Some excel at reason, others at courage, most at making things grow or go. In 
\f2\i The Republic
\f3\i0 , Plato suggested a tidy plan:
\f1\fs24 \strokec2 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl0
\f3\fs30\fsmilli15333 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 The wise and just should lead.
\fs29\fsmilli14667 \
\ls3\ilvl0
\fs30\fsmilli15333 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 The brave should protect.
\fs29\fsmilli14667 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa400\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl0
\fs30\fsmilli15333 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 The rest should produce.
\fs29\fsmilli14667 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs30\fsmilli15333 \cf0 Sounds elegant, right? Except for one glitch: we\'92re terrible at sorting people. Who\'92s wise? Who\'92s just? Potential hides, talent misfires, and bias blinds us. Plato\'92s dream hit a wall called reality.
\f1\fs24 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs30\fsmilli15333 \cf0 \strokec2 A Modern Bet: Capitalism and Democracy
\f1\b0\fs24 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs30\fsmilli15333 \cf0 \strokec2 So we tried something messier: let people sort themselves. Capitalism and democracy aren\'92t perfect\'97they\'92re experiments. Give everyone a shot at opportunity, then let markets and votes shake out the winners. It\'92s not about picking the wise; it\'92s about trusting that ambition and choice will surface them. Sometimes it works. Sometimes it\'92s chaos. Either way, it\'92s where we are\'97still tweaking, still debating.
\f1\fs24 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs30\fsmilli15333 \cf0 \strokec2 Where We\'92re Headed
\f1\b0\fs24 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs30\fsmilli15333 \cf0 \strokec2 This is just the canopy. In the chapters ahead\'97or posts, if this stays a blog\'97we\'92ll climb down the trunk. One branch leads to epistemology and science: how we sharpen our tools and test our truths. Another digs into society: how we balance freedom, fairness, and the pursuit of something bigger. My expertise leans toward those social roots, but we\'92ll start where all roots begin: the questions that keep us awake. Join me to wrestle with them, build on them, or tear them apart. The tree\'92s yours to climb.
\f1\fs24 \strokec2 \
\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf0 What do we mean by know:\uc0\u8232 - Jim has the ability to\'85(at least to a certain threshold relevant for the context): Jim knows how to ride a bike\u8232 - Jim has was taught or memorized a fact/belief or series of them: Jim knows the periodic table\u8232 - Jim was a justified true belief:\'a0
\f1\fs24 \

\f3\fs29\fsmilli14667 \'a0\'a0\'95 The gettier problem is one of defining justification, specifically\'a0 around if an error in justification is still justification and thus if it is still knowledge. \uc0\u8232 \'a0 \'95 no false lemmas: \'93A belief that is justified, true and not based on any false assumptions.\'94 \u8232  \'a0 - if it is based on false assumptions \'91justified\'92 as a word being used in a very broad sense. This goes right to the core of the problem of trusting an authority. If someone tells you something and they are considered an expect, that is a level of justification, if they were wrong in their justification and either their belief is false or their belief is true but justification insufficient your reliance on their expertise for the justification is wrong. Take the sheep example. Jim heard from Marcy that there was a sheep in the field, Marcy mistook a rock for a sheep, but there is still a sheep in the field. Is Jim justified in believing Marcy? Is Jim\'92s belief justified? If Jim told someone else there was a sheep in the field, which is true, is their belief sufficiently justified? \'93Not based on any false assumptions\'94 isn\'92t its own condition it is inherent to justification.\'a0
\f1\fs24 \
}