{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2821
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial-BoldMT;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial-ItalicMT;
\f3\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red16\green60\blue192;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c6667\c33333\c80000;
}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs48 \cf0 Sneaky Candy
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs48 \cf3 \strokec3 \'a0It\'92s impact on capitalism, truth, and individual growth
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\i\fs28 \cf3 \cb3 \strokec3 By: JT James
\f3\i0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf0 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 	A product that is \'91candy\'92 doesn\'92t have long term value and is detrimental to health if consumed at high levels. A diet composed of a high percentage of \'91candy\'92 can be particularly harmful. That is not to say \'91candy\'92 has no value, the short term pleasure is meaningful.\'a0
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi960\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf0 The harm of candy isn\'92t readily apparent. A civilization of children with access to an infinite amount of any type of food would consume a lot of candy. It might be a while before this society deduces the cause of their malnutrition and other problems. The short term pleasure and long term costs create a first layer of obfuscation of the value of candy. Which many of us struggle to manage the value between restraint and indulgence of.\'a0
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs29\fsmilli14667 Emotional and intellectual candy are everywhere today, these types of candy are also often sneaky. They masquerade as things of substance, creating a second layer of obfuscation around its value. Sneaky Candy is having a significant impact on our markets, search for truth, on media, or activities that traditionally helped us improve ourselves. It\'92s pretending to be journalism, literature, theater, debate, and games (arguably also the publish or perish aspect of scientific exploration). Nearly everything that developed as means of communication and exploration of ideas and skills is being influenced by candy sellers and much of it is sneaky.\'a0
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\li960\fi-960\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf0 \ul \ulc0 Candy in journalism
\f0\fs24 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\li960\fi-960\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf0 I think that Newsroom season 1 Episode 8 \'93The Blackout Part 1: Tragedy Porn\'94 is one decent dramatic representation of candy masquerading as journalism. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JQIPmXmcQPE"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 Here is one example within it.}}\'a0\'a0
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li960\fi-960\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf0 Most often this comes down to the media doing two things poorly. First it does not sufficiently inform people of the facts while leaving people to believe they are. Second, it does not sufficiently help people think about the facts which even if it was doing well it couldn\'92t do accurately without helping people actually understand the facts and their relationship to other facts.\'a0
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li960\fi-960\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf0 We\'92re seeing society fracture on a lot of dimensions, many of them relate not only to differences in principle but differences in beliefs about the facts. \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li960\fi-960\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf0 \ul \ulc0 Candy in Entertainment
\f0\fs24 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\li960\fi-960\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf0 Much of film and TV today is candy. Sneaky candy is found often in stories that pretend or strive to be more than just engaging fiction. The dramatization of real people and events while lying about what happened. The Crown or The Imitation game as two examples that are well regarded as quality storytelling, even winning the highest awards we have for it. They won these while lying about and misrepresenting history. When the value of a significant part of their product is due to its relationship to history, the harm created toward societal awareness of history is nearly as important as \'91fake news\'92. 
\f2\i\fs24 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 Shows like 
\f3\i0 Netflix Explained
\f2\i  might even be a particularly sneaky candy. Episodes can leave the viewer believing themselves to be informed enough to form an opinion while only covering a small amount of the issue or from only one point of view (creating a problem with belief perseverance when challenged).
\f0\i0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li960\fi-960\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf0 \ul \ulc0 Candy in literature
\f0\fs24 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\li960\fi-960\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf0 The rise of YA fiction as contemporary adult literature.\'a0
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs29\fsmilli14667 Bad scientific literature.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs29\fsmilli14667 Many of the books that work to sell and brand people instead of ideas. \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\f2\i\fs26\fsmilli13333 I have fewer examples of this as I\'92m exposed to less of it
\f0\i0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li960\fi-960\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf0 \ul \ulc0 Candy in games
\f0\fs24 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\li960\fi-960\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf0 My definition of a game is an interactive experience that tests a skill. As such they are inherently educational, they require players to improve or learn skills to play them. This is their substance, this is their value.\uc0\u8232 \u8232 A common path a person might take in strategy games is Tic-Tac-Toe -> Connect 4 -> Checkers -> Chess -> Go. As one masters the skills needed in one game they advance to the more complex game where the skill ceiling is higher and or impossible to truly master. Much of the game industry today is built around creating loops that get you stuck in their game as long as possible instead of providing the boundless skill ceiling or encouraging you to move on once you\'92ve mastered the associated skills.\u8232 \u8232 
\f2\i\fs26\fsmilli13333 Games can be particularly sneaky candy as we can easily create an illusion of progress within them. We\'92ve \'91gamified\'92 games.\'a0
\f0\i0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf0 	\ul Candy in actual food
\f0\fs24 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\li960\fi-960\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf0 Nutrition has for years been inaccurate and not healthy, creating a populace that is often confused and no longer seems to place much trust into most authorities advice on what is actually healthy.\'a0
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi960\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf0 Most of the time we don\'92t want to remove candy from society.\'a0 We want to recognize it, enjoy a healthy amount of it, and make sure its consumers are informed of its downsides. Although, some rare times we do require the guidance of a responsible authority to help manage intake or entirely prevent access to it. Some candy (heroin? Wire-heading etc.) might never be safe enough to allow on the market. No matter how sophisticated our self-control and societal awareness becomes.\'a0
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs29\fsmilli14667 The market doesn\'92t protect from candy, and often encourages it due its ease of production. The short-term value of candy can cause many problems in self-control even when it isn\'92t sneaky, thus markets seem to tend to shift toward selling candy. Entire market spaces can be created or won by doing so. Especially when it is sneaky and thus not easily recognized as candy. This is a significant flaw in capitalism, and its impact can be seen right now in the marketplace for everything listed above. In those and other markets today sneaky candy is very profitable, consumed eagerly and regularly, and yet is providing little, no, or negative value to people and society. This is especially problematic in democratic society where individuals are expected to value self-improvement, be aware of history, and be knowledgeable of current events to help steer society into a better future.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs29\fsmilli14667 To combat this problem we might need to create some authority to recognize, label, and regulate candy in new or evolving markets (similar to the FDA but with a broader scope). At least until the general population can quickly recognize sneaky candy through its two layers of obfuscation. This is of course a bigger problem when our authorities are also corrupt, creating a positive feedback loop to the bottom until of course corrected. I.e. A democratic society can\'92t hold its authorities to account when so much of the \'91journalism\'92 it's consuming is really sneaky candy.\'a0\'a0\'a0
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs29\fsmilli14667 It is hard for individuals to have the foresight and desire to make good choices and give up pleasures in the short-run that help the long-run, and it becomes harder the less happy people are. Market forces seem to be perfectly willing and capable of leveraging sneaky candy to take advantage of aspects of our nature, deceiving us into thinking they aren\'92t leading us down a primrose path.\'a0
\f0\fs24 \
}