{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2821
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red16\green60\blue192;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c6667\c33333\c80000;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Civil disobedience\'a0
\f1\fs24 \
\

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 Tolerance of intolerance
\f1\fs24 \
\
\

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 PD
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \uc0\u8232 Tolerance allows for good reciprocity, you can believe what you believe and I can be free to believe what I do. \u8232 \u8232 Which generally on a short run has great merit. \u8232 \u8232 The problem comes in when those beliefs clash and start to deal with shaping culture and politics. \u8232 \u8232 At some point we have to have intolerance of beliefs that are less good. \u8232 \u8232 We want a positive slope for our beliefs in regard to their effect on our well-being. Some beliefs don\'92t have a positive slope. They could have no slope or a negative slope. \u8232 \u8232 We need to be intolerant of those two types of slope for progress.\'a0
\f1\fs24 \
\

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 However, we also need to figure out how to accurately assess new beliefs that are claimed to be progress. This is generally done through reason and discovery. Finding new facts then trying to understand that new fact in relation to the old ones. \uc0\u8232 \u8232 Which creates a conservative force on this reciprocity through fear of creating a negative slope instead of a positive one. Often it requires an act of incivility, of civil disobedience, of an action that looks like defection to the neutral slope reciprocal relationship to create a positive or more positive slope.\'a0
\f1\fs24 \
\

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 To look at numbers lets say we start out with standard PD values 1,1, 3,3, 5,0. The total points society can gain is 6. There are some cases where the defection is important even though in the short term that puts us at a 5 points to society as when that stabilizes again our cooperative societal value could be 8. \uc0\u8232 
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 Each set of variable beliefs is likely to have a different slope on human progress. \uc0\u8232 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://youtu.be/tmOwwIsyGY0?t=2436"}}{\fldrslt 
\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 https://youtu.be/tmOwwIsyGY0?t=2436}}\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf0 Your data isn\'92t at all unbias, there is a huge selection bias for the people that follow you on twitter and are likely to respond to you.
\f1\fs24 \
\

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 Secondarily saying you trust biology more seems much more like a programmed response than an actual one, as people don\'92t seem to often behave relating to that statement. Not just what\'92s on the news but people I run into on an everyday discussion that often ends in failure because they don\'92t accept biology over gender studies.\'a0
\f1\fs24 \
\

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \'a0
\f1\fs24 \
}