{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2821
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf0 It always bothered me how we went from such an enlightened state of things in Athens, where people we discussing and recognizing deep wisdom that seems prophetic even today. A time that the renaissance and enlightenment used to restart our path toward discovering truth. How could we go from that to the period the Dark Ages or the Early Middle Ages for you more sensitively inclined.\'a0
\f0\fs24 \
\

\f1\fs29\fsmilli14667 I\'92m a game designer and I\'92m at the time of writing this I\'92m in the middle of building a world. A central part of my goal is to create a fantasy world that is logically consistent, a world where magic not only has a place but is naturally incorporated into society. As such I also want faith and gods, two other important parts in the genre to also fit in naturally. I\'92m doing this the same time as listening to various philosophical discussions. Such as between Peterson and Harris or Peterson and Dillahunty. Between the two it interesting taking an archaic look at god, at the line of thought the Greeks had and their value of wisdom, and how that degrades into faith.\'a0
\f0\fs24 \
\

\f1\fs29\fsmilli14667 Humans consistently anthropomorphize things, we\'92ve done it through stories throughout all of recorded history. Observations become ideas we start to connect to other ideas, we start to recognize patterns between the forces of existence and them start to imagine them as humanoid entities. Gods or spiritual things across nearly all cultures take on human characteristics, not just in form but in sapience, in intent.\'a0
\f0\fs24 \
\

\f1\fs29\fsmilli14667 ,\'a0\'a0
\f0\fs24 \
}