---
title: "One of the complications of power is that we want to, we ideally live in this"
tags: [spectrums, aims-of-power-political-spectrums]
source: drawio
cell-id: "uMTBItHwGZwq3fhviun5-1606"
page: "Page-1"
---

[[Aims of Power Political Spectrums]]

# One of the complications of power is that we want to, we ideally live in this

One of the complications of power is that we want to, we ideally live in this world of a marketplace of ideas competing to try to fight for these questions and get to a reasonable answer for all of them. We've failed or we've had both we failed because we've had allowed proper leaders and we have to resort to physical power. overcome. because they were using physical power against us and we're uh unwilling to see reason to engage in this marketplace of ideas. People like power, power, makes you pretty happy.  On top of it, you think you were the right person to lead us towards this good life, often the people in power live just about the best lives there are We have problems with power. Any problems of resources. And then fairly significantly we have problems of lineage.  How do we deal with the sorting problem? or bad at recognizing, and creating opportunity for people based on their talents, potential, and likelihood of being adjusting wise person, and that's just for governance and leadership, let allow the skill sets that we want to be molding and approving and striving for excellence in over time. And we find the best craftsmen and put them under the best, teachers of craftsmanship, whatever craft they happen to take on, over time. thousands of years, we've gotten to some idea that we think aren't we, the best way. is operortunity. for everybody letting them choose and explore and build let them compete in the building, to achieve progress and whatever it is, they're having to compete in as long as that competition is in Sp domains in violence.  We include the within the marketplace of ideas, includes the ability to craft better, as soon as we start allowing people to compete each other, by because they have more money, they can beat the person that has less money and in the market are not winning because their craft is better if they're winning because they can sell it a cheaper price and drive someone else at a business because they have a larger bank account. They're winning because they make the anti-too hard for any high for anyone else to compete. winning because other things along the lines of using or monetary monetary power to prevent people from competing with them. And part of the reality is that as things get more complex, as they become deeper, we get to a place where the antidomete is higher and we have often artificially made it higher for IP law and things along those lines that prevent no people from coming in to compete. we need to be building this world that creates a marketplace, and that marketplace requires society given people opportunity to compete against a trenched established. organizations, which were not doing now, which means we don't have a real market. the idea of real market is giving everyone this equal opportunity to compete and strive towards something better.  We believe that soorning for wisdoms look something like democracy. where we are allowing for people to vote based off of what they think is going to lead us to a better future, Of course the problem there is the lack of or the breakdown of the educational systems. From the breakdown of the educational systems, we have issues around all the things that are supposed to make us better craftsmen, and wiser in our ability to sort for wisdom. or the wisest of all of us, are the most value in the purchased things that we purchase, at this point we've lost so much track of the fundamentals. Why are we doing this in the first place?  We're all stuck. striving to compete with each other or the wrong idea of what economics even is. So we're trying to answer these fundamental questions. All of those fundamental questions are related to resources, and access and opportunity. access an opportunity and resources related to power, and the best way is we think we can get to good distributionions of power rely upon liberty.  People being free to compete with each other in a marketplace of ideas, and craftsmanship. access, the knowledge and opportunity to build and that's require it a deep, powerful education system, not just so we don't run into the problem of Marcusurelius, giving up wisdom or his seat of power to commodore. probably one of the greatest tragedies in in lineage in a way, that's ever existed. Someone we consider to be great. and wise, passing down of power to someone who seemingly was decidedly not These are the foundations which we build as this world were stratepping towards
