---
title: "Plato"
tags: [fundamentals]
source: drawio
cell-id: "cGsF5-ozOj9Y5ZlHEd7b-1553"
page: "Page-1"
---

# Plato

https://archive.org/details/platofivegreatdi032940mbp/mode/2up

Introduction

SOME twenty-four hundred years ago that part of the world which then represented Western civilization was divided into two opposing leagues of states. One league was headed by a seagoing, trading democracy, mistress of a marine empire of colonies and more or less subject states, scattered through the neighboring seas. The other was led by an inland, military aristocracy, conqueror of considerable territory close around herself and ally of whatever states feared the spread of democratic imperialism. The democracy was Athens, then at the height of her expanding pride and glory. The aristocracy was Sparta, conservative and tenacious, holding on to all that had ever been hers. Athens had a matchless fleet; Sparta an army without equal on shore.

The citizens of democratic Athens were proud of their liberty, their government by popular assemblies and officials chosen yearly by a combination of ballot and lot. Women, foreigners, and slaves were, of course, excluded from politics but the vote of every freeborn Athenian man counted for as much as every other's. They were proud too in Athens of their unparalleled culture, their literature, drama, music, and art. The beautiful new Parthenon, temple of their patron goddess Athene, shone down on them from the Acropolis. In their theaters were produced the tragedies and comedies that are still the marvels of the world. Among writers and intellectuals there was much free thought and speculation on questions of science, philosophy, and religion. The city, however, was strict in performing its duties to the gods of the fathers, celebrating in special state the festivals of Athene, of the nature god Dionysus and the earth mother Demeter. Athenians revered and consulted the mysterious oracle of Apollo in its rocky ravine at Delphi and competed in the pan-Hellenic games at Olympia in honor of the great Zeus. In soldierly Sparta, life was far more austere, more like that of an armed garrison in a country of aliens. As hardened warriors, Spartans scorned the things that made men soft: wealth, trade, luxury, and refinements. They were proud of their physical strength, bravery, and discipline.

In 431 B.C. the long smoldering rivalry between the two leagues broke out in open war over the problem of who was to control the sea routes to the West, that is, to Sicily and South Italy. Until then Sparta's ally Corinth had had almost a monopoly of relations with the flourishing Greek settlements in that region. But now Athens wanted the trade In Western grain and metals for her empire. For twenty-seven years the so-called Peloponnesian War dragged on with the advantage swinging first to one side and then to the other. By 404, Athens was exhausted, drained of men and resources, her harbor empty of ships, her empire shattered. For a few months she was compelled to submit to government by a pro-Spartan, aristocratic clique of her own citizens, the infamous Thirty. In their short term of office they did their best to liquidate all the leading democrats of the city. But that was more than even defeated Athens could endure. At the end of the year the people rose, drove out the Thirty, and set up the forms of democracy once more. But Athens had lost faith in her own powers and the treacherous and cold-blooded behavior of her citizens had shaken her people's confidence in one another. Who was to be trusted when enemies ringed her around and her own turned and stabbed her? The city was split into factions, each hating the other more than they did the Spartans.

For some time there had existed in Greece a class of professional teachers of citizenship, to train young men in the arts of politics, public speaking, and debate, that they might know how to acquit themselves in the assemblies and courts and on the commissions to which they might be appointed. These teachers were called Sophists. Among themselves they differed a good deal both as to method of teaching and as to the kind of moral and intellectual standards they gave their pupils to follow. The more old-fashioned still kept their faith in the gods of Homer and the poets, and in the codes of patriotism and fair dealing that had been accepted before the war. Others were advocates of the new materialistic science that saw the universe as a product of whirling atoms and chance. They doubted whether there were gods who took any interest in men. Others still more skeptical denied that men could ever know anything certain about world, or gods, or anything at all. Many of these went on to assert that right and wrong, justice and injustice, truth and falsehood were merely artificial conventions, agreed on and upheld by human societies for their own convenience or forced upon them by superior might. Everyone could see that they differed from time to time and nation to nation. There were therefore no divine and unchangeable laws of right and wrong, that remained right and wrong always and everywhere. "The truth is that which is agreed on, at the time of agreement and as long as the agreement lasts." The one thing certain was that men by nature were greedy for pleasure, money, and fame and would always get what they could by fair means or foul.

To the mass of plain Athenians teachings like these were horrifying and blasphemous. No wonder, they thought, the gods had ceased to defend a city that sheltered such wickedness and atheism in its walls! On one man in particular, who had long been a conspicuous figure in city life, their suspicion and anger suddenly fell. This man was Socrates (469-399), a stonecutter by trade, frequently called a Sophist, though he protested he was not. He had no classroom, gave no formal instruction and took no pay. He only walked about the places where Athenians congregated, the streets, the market place and the gymnasium, or sat in the houses of acquaintances, talking cheerily to whoever stopped to listen. On the much discussed scientific problems of the nature and origin of the universe he had nothing to say. In that connection the only question, he said, that interested him was why the universe was made as it was, and that question he had never found anyone able to answer. Why then waste time arguing over things that all wise men disagreed about, in search for a knowledge that would do one no good if one had it? What men needed to know was how to make the best out of living. Socrates was one of those who, as Cicero said afterward, brought philosophy down from heaven to earth.
To the Sophists and materialists, who denied the existence of any absolute goodness and truth and ridiculed the old moralities and the old faith, he was utterly opposed. Yet neither would he return blindly and uncritically to the old ways simply because they were old. To believe a thing because one's grandfather believed it was no more right than to believe it because a Sophist preached it. The only way now to cure the disillusionment, cynicism and doubt to which Athenian disasters and sophistic reasoning had brought too many of the youth of the day was to push reasoning further. The method he used to persuade people to do this has been a model for imitation ever since. Start with a simple question suggested by something someone else has said. Ask him innocently to explain what he thinks is the meaning of some familiar word, the name of something immaterial but regarded commonly as important—friendship, courage, justice, truth. Show him by more probing questions how stupid his conventional definition is and kindle his interest to try for something better, something that will pierce down to the very heart of the problem of human values. Even if he reaches no positive conclusion, both he and the listening circle will have realized for a moment, at least, how foolishly they have taken for granted habits, opinions, and attitudes that were prejudiced, harmful, and false, and how thrilling and inspiring may be the hunt for honesty and truth. "We shall be better, braver, and less helpless if we think that we ought to inquire [about such things] than we should have been if we indulged in the idle fancy that there was no knowing and no use in trying to know."

To Socrates, as he said at his trial, what the Athenians seemed to need most in these years of bitter discomfiture was not a siren to flatter and soothe them with sham promises of a speedy return of prosperity and grandeur, but a gadfly to sting them to unflinching self-examination, to see where in the past they had been wrong-headed and mistaken and how with patience and hard thinking they might yet build better lives for themselves and for their city. If only men could be brought to see the good, he was sure they would always choose it and understand, as he did, that to do evil was worse even than to suffer it. Men were bad because they were thoughtless and ignorant. Straight thinking must lead to right living.

Socrates was no philosophical innovator with disturbing new theories about the gods. He believed that they were good and that they watched over and protected good men and women. He himself heard often a divine voice forbidding him to do things he should not do. He paid the usual offerings in the temples. But his manner of speaking of divine as well as other matters was unusual. His way of questioning popular ideas, old as well as new, seemed really just one more way of teaching the young to have no respect for their elders and to speculate about what their ancestors had accepted in reverence and trust. If he had only been willing to keep silence and stop his perpetual discussions, that unsettled everybody's mind in this time of danger to the state, the jury would undoubtedly have let him go. But "I shall not change my ways," he said, "though I die a thousand deaths." The jury thereupon condemned him to die.|

Like Jesus, Socrates left no written word behind him. But like him, he left devoted followers who wrote their recollections of what he had said and done. Most of this early Socratic literature, like the primitive Christian documents, has disappeared. But one of Socrates' disciples was the author of a series of dialogues that began as a monument to a beloved master, but went on to become the starting point of much that was to be fruitful and profound in European thought to this day. As one of our modern thinkers has remarked, philosophy ever since then has consisted largely of footnotes on Plato.

Plato (427-347) came of a distinguished Athenian family. In his youth, as he tells us in a letter, he had looked forward eagerly to entering public life. He was twenty-three when the war ended with the overthrow of the discredited democratic government. Among the aristocratic Thirty were his mother's brother and cousin and they invited Plato to join them. "I thought," he says, "these men were going to put a stop to the evils that had been happening and govern the city with justice, so I watched their conduct closely to see what they would do. But . . . they very soon showed me that the preceding regime had been a golden age by comparison." The worst weaknesses of the democracy seemed nothing beside the savagery of the Thirty. When, however, the Thirty were expelled, Plato hoped once more to take a part in city politics. The restored democracy was at first surprisingly moderate and even generous in its treatment of those who had tried to destroy it. But ere long the young man's sensitive conscience was shocked again. His teacher Socrates, "whom I would not hesitate to call the most righteous man of that time," was accused by influential democrats of impiety and put to death. "The more I reflected on what was going on and what kind of men were active in politics and what kind of laws and customs we had, and the older I grew, the more I realized how hard it is to reform public life."

Grieving for Socrates and baffled in his hope of doing something with the democrats to improve the state of things at Athens, he went abroad and stayed for over ten years. In Sicily, he spent some time at the court of Dionysius I of Syracuse observing the working of a dictatorship. "At last," he says, "I came to the conclusion that all existing states are badly governed and the condition of their laws practically incurable without the application of drastic remedies and help of fortune . . . and that the ills of the human race will never disappear until by God's gift those who are sincere and true lovers of wisdom attain political power, or the rulers of our cities learn true philosophy."

Some time after reaching this conclusion, Plato returned to Athens and founded his Academy, since called the first European university, on a private estate outside the city walls. Not if he could, would he start another violent revolution in government. He had seen enough of blood, slaughter, and exile. But after the manner of Socrates he would serve his city by teaching young men the love of wisdom, truth, and justice, until reform came peacefully by education and persuasion. Like Socrates, he believed virtue to be a form of knowledge that could be taught. But his program of teaching was more far-reaching and systematic than Socrates' had been. It included preparatory studies in mathematics, astronomy, music, and logic as well as in politics and ethics. Only by strict discipline, did he think, could a young mind be made keen enough to penetrate beyond the disordered welter of our present world and perceive the unchangeable principles of truth. Before long the Academy was drawing students from all over the Greek world. It continued to do so for some nine hundred years, until the Christian emperor Justinian at last closed its doors in 529 A.D.

The latter half of his life Plato spent teaching, lecturing, and writing at his school, except for two trips he made back to Syracuse. In 367, the second Dionysius succeeded his father. He had ambitions to be a great ruler, showed a hopeful interest in learning, and was susceptible to influence. There seemed a chance that under wise guidance he might become the beneficent statesman that Plato was longing to see come into power somewhere. Plato paid him two visits, anxious now that an opportunity seemed at hand, to test his ideals in practice. But Dionysius was not, after all, the stuff of which philosopher rulers are made. He tired quickly of study, was easily excited to jealousy and suspicion. His word could not be relied on. Deeply disappointed, Plato came home to Athens. He died there at the age of eighty. The wars between Greek cities and parties were still going on, breaking down the strength and morale of all of them, regardless of the menace of a rising new power in the North. Nine years after Plato's death Greece found herself lying helpless before the armies of Philip of Macedonia, father of Alexander the Great. The day of the free Greek city state was over.

Plato left behind him a mass of writings, of which we possess several letters and at least twenty-five authentic dialogues. His own views as well as his master's he presented in the form, not of imposing treatises or heavy textbooks, but of dramatic conversations between friends, fresh, spontaneous, humorous, and informal, held as chance might have it, in some house or public building or open space of Athens, where Socrates had been known to talk. In all but the latest dialogues Socrates figures as the presiding genius and chief speaker, even when, as time goes on, the ideas he is expressing are no longer his but his disciple's. Plato in his own person says never a word. Taken together, however, these dialogues contain his answers to the three fundamental questions that had been raised by his predecessors and contemporaries. First, where can man find anything which he can know is truth? Second, what are the origin and constitution of the natural world in which man is set? Third, for what purpose was man created and what should he choose as his aim in life?

Put into simple, modern words, Plato's solution of the problem of how we can discover knowledge that is true may be summarized as follows. Our senses, sight, touch, and hearing, often deceive us. Our sense impressions, taken alone, are misleading and superficial and tell us nothing about the real nature of the things around us. Common opinion, grounded as it is on sensation, hearsay, and habit, cannot be trusted as a guide to truth. But through our reason we may arrive at what may be rightfully called true knowledge and understanding. Through reason we may use our sense experiences and memories of past experiences as material for a process of analysis, classification, and synthesis that bit by bit builds up for us a pattern of permanent, invisible order behind the perplexing panorama which is all that our senses alone perceive.

The first steps in this reasoning process we take unconsciously in childhood. We play, for example, with the household cat, noticing the looks and behavior of the little beast as an entirely strange and unique individual. But soon afterward we make the acquaintance of the neighbor's cat, of a stray kitten in the street, and eventually we sift out of our experience with cats and kittens certain traits that we see are common to all cats as distinguished from other animals, such as dogs. Thus we form a conception of cats as a class or species with its own place in nature, sure henceforth that every cat we meet will possess those qualities of cattishness which it shares with every other of its class, however it may differ in accidental details of size, color, or playfulness. The same is true of every object and creature with which we come in contact—stones, trees, rivers, beetles, birds, cows. We learn to see them all not as disconnected, separate individuals but as members of some one permanent class or species, which itself is part of one vast, related universe. Even the belief in our own personal uniqueness we finally lose and accept the fact that we are but one of the great family of mankind.

So with motion and change in our world. From day to day, uncomprehendingly at first, we watch the rising and setting of the sun and moon, the changes in the weather, the wandering of the stars through the night sky. At length we discern behind the show of ceaseless, haphazard variation the fixed and stately march of the planets and the seasons of the year. Certain qualities, that themselves are always the same, appear and reappear in innumerable changing and perishing objects. Many different objects are white—a house, a woman's dress, a cloud. Many different objects are square—a mathematician's diagram, a tile, a rug. Many different objects have beauty—a flower, a sunset, a human face. Many different words and thoughts contain truth—a proposition in geometry, a report of a game, a rule of morals. There are then, we come to see, certain qualities or essences or, as Plato called them, Ideas, such as whiteness, squareness, beauty, truth, which our minds may learn to recognize as permanent realities, continually imparting their unchanging form and character to the transient flux of mortality on our earth. The more persistently we examine with our reason the shifting kaleidoscope which is all our senses perceive, the plainer we find traces of deep and essential connection between objects and movements that previously seemed to us unconnected, the more, as Plato said, we collect "into a unity by means of reason the many particulars of sense." Therewith we arrive at a knowledge that is sure and superior to mere opinion, a knowledge of things not in their superficial aspects, but in their inner nature and purpose, which is their reality.

The problem of the constitution of the universe was then to Plato a double one. From what we have already said it is clear that he saw it as a combination of two contradictory elements or principles. There was, first, the well-knit, harmonious, and changeless pattern running through it for whoever had a mind to understand. There was also the more or less misshapen, conflicting, and short-lived mass of concrete objects, which we daily see, touch, and handle. Our world is made up of these objects, is never at rest, is always in process of dying or being born, of becoming something else. No single object in it, however near it may come to perfection, is ever absolutely perfect or lasting. The pattern running through it is marred by countless flaws of ugliness and decay, storms, earthquakes, deformities of man and beast. "What is that which always is," Plato asks in his dialogue of Timaeus, "and is never becoming? What is that which is always becoming and never is?" There are two worlds, was his answer. One is an invisible, spiritual world of perfect order and design, containing in itself the eternal models or Ideas of all that appears temporarily and imperfectly in this—the perfect cat, the perfect color, the perfect square, perfect beauty and truth. That is the heavenly world of true Being, presided over by the greatest of all Ideas, the Idea of the Good, the Supreme One, the Father, God. Our material world by contrast is a world of Non-being, of becoming but never remaining the same, of evil polluting good, of beauty forever fading and passing away, a faulty copy of a peerless pattern. "Life, like a dome of many-colored glass, stains the white radiance of eternity."

The creation and ordering of our world Plato describes in the Timaeus. God, the all-perfect ruler of the spiritual world, though himself lacking nothing, beheld the sphere of Non-being, or, as it was to be later called, matter, and found it lifeless, dark, and chaotic. Himself all goodness, he desired all things to be like himself, good and not evil. So he looked to the spiritual world of Ideas about him and framed a material world after its model, bringing down spirit to unite with matter, making it rich and diversified and endowing it with life, soul, and intelligence. The sky he created as a vast globe, placing within it the stars, sun, and moon in their orbits and setting them to revolve as in a great dance. The earth he fastened in the center. Time began as the celestial bodies rolled on, marking the days and nights, months and years.

Next, God made creatures of every sort and capacity to inhabit the universe, following still the patterns already existing in the ideal world. He created first the lesser gods, the Olympian deities, Zeus, Apollo, Athene, and the rest, and after them the beasts, birds, fishes, and land animals, bestowing on each an appropriate soul. Last of all, he poured what was left of matter into the cup in which he had mixed the world's soul and from this diluted mixture created the throng of human souls, which he distributed among the stars. For a while the souls were content to live there in purity and bliss, but eventually they were drawn by their kinship to the material earth beneath to desire bodies. Thereupon the Creator assigned to the lesser gods the duty of preparing mortal bodies out of material earth, air, fire, and water. Thenceforth each soul, as its turn comes, is joined for a lifetime to a body and joined thereby to the lower appetites and passions that cling to it throughout its earthly career. It finds itself, as Plato says in the Phaedrus, driving a chariot with two horses, one a white horse, gallant and gentle, straining continually to mount, keeping his eyes ever on the divine world to which he aspires to return, the other a dark horse, unruly and vicious, obstinately plunging downward and dragging the chariot behind him.

But even after its descent to earth, the soul has its reminders of the world of true Being of which it was once a part. It has its glimpses, as we have said, of the sublime order governing the tangled maze of earthly phenomena. It has also its own memories, faint and blurred though they be, of a wisdom and perfection surpassing anything this world has ever shown it. Our learning is often remembering what we once knew in another life. But few men understand the meaning of these reminders. In the Phaedo and again in the Republic Plato describes the sight-loving, art-loving folk who are "fond of fine tones and colors and forms and all the artificial products of them but whose minds are not capable of seeing or loving absolute beauty," even when forced to admit that none of the beautiful things they prize is wholly free of ugliness. They can love the many beautiful but not beauty itself, which is one, nor can they follow a guide who points the way thither. True lovers of wisdom, on the contrary, are never content with what their bodily eyes can see but are ever searching with their reasons for the invisible, pure and immutable essence of things. They "distinguish the Idea from the objects that participate in the Idea."

In the course of the inspired speech on love which Socrates delivers in the dialogue called the Symposium, he tells how a man may rise, as on a ladder, from love of one fair, earthly face or form to a love that reaches upward to the divine. First, "he will himself perceive that the beauty of one form is akin to the beauty of another; and then . . . how foolish he will be not to recognize that beauty in every form is one and the same." At this point "he will abate his violent love of one object," which now seems a small thing, and become a lover of all beautiful forms. Next, he will realize that beauty of mind is more precious than beauty of body and so mount to a love of beauty of spirit, justice, and truth, as revealed in noble institutions and laws, "from fair forms to fair practices and from fair practices to fair thoughts, until from fair thoughts he arrives at the idea of absolute beauty and at last knows what absolute beauty is." For "he who has learned to see the beautiful in due order and succession, when he comes toward the end, will suddenly perceive a nature of wondrous beauty, . . . not growing and decaying, not waxing and waning, nor fair from one point of view and foul from another, but Beauty only, absolute, separate, simple, everlasting, which without diminution and increase or any change is imparted to the ever growing and perishing beauties of all other things."But does a man find beauty merely to lose it in death? No, for the soul of man is immortal, as Socrates proves at length in the Phaedo and more briefly in the last book of the Republic. He who in this life hungers for wisdom and goodness, and trains himself by unwearying exercise to behold and commune with the world of true Being, after death will either be reincarnated in the person of another wise and upright man or, having finished his term of earthly imprisonment, soar back to the life of heaven. Whereas the soul that has lived engrossed in material things, a slave to its lusts and passions, is sent by the powers that rule the afterlife to suffer punishment and be born again in the body of a more brutish man or of an animal. Only after years of pain and struggle in the lowest depths of existence will it emerge purified to reascend the path to the sky. "Wherefore my counsel is that we hold fast ever to the heavenly way and follow after justice and virtue always. . . . Thus we shall live dear to one another and to the gods, both while we sojourn here and when, like victors in the games, . . . we receive our reward." And herein lies the answer to the third of the questions Plato had set before him. What should a man do with his life?

But for Plato it was not enough to have uncovered the principles of order, reason, and right in the inner world of man's thought and conscience and in the outer world of nature. Logic, metaphysics, and ethics were not complete without politics, the attempt to put these same principles into operation in the life of humanity in the mass, as a whole so turbulent and miserable. Could society be reorganized in such a way as to give all kinds of men, the ignorant and simple as well as the cultivated and intellectual, both the requisite material security and the chance to live the best lives of which they were capable? Could the earthly state be rebuilt to accord with the heavenly ideal of justice? And would such a state, by the mere fact of being built upon justice, be more peaceful and more happy than other states?

To answer these questions, not long after he founded the Academy, Plato wrote the Republic. It is the earliest and in many respects the noblest of all works on sociology and political theory. He begins by describing the rise of a community of the type he knows best, a Greek city state. It starts in a river valley opening into the sea. It is small; its boundaries can be traced from any high peak. In one of his later books, the Laws, Plato sets the ideal number of citizen families at 5040 (early idea of limiting the population to solve for some sort of repugnant conclusion and maintain familiarity akin to the Dunbar number- zzy). But small as it is, the community contains in itself enough to supply its elementary wants. The tops of the encircling hills are dark with forest, in which woodsmen cut timber and fuel. The slopes below are pastures for herdsmen and their goats and cattle. Along the river lie the farmers' fields and orchards. From the river's mouth fishermen put out with their nets and traders sail with cargoes to other ports. The population grows and its members feel the need of closer cooperation. The men from the hills and fields meet the fishermen and traders from the harbor in a market for the exchange of wares. Modes of life become more diversified and specialized. Walls are built to protect the wealth of craftsmen and merchants. Money takes the place of barter. Trade widens and the community establishes relations, friendly or unfriendly, with its neighbors. As an independent political and economic unit it holds its own with other states in its world. For years, in fact, hundreds of such little states had been growing up and flourishing along the Mediterranean coasts.

The state then has arrived. A society is organized. A simple government is set up by general agreement. The settlers are separated into classes, the natural outcome of the community needs. The great majority are workers and producers of all kinds on the soil and the sea and in the city shops. They have their homes and families, own their lands, houses, and tools, lead active, healthful lives, sturdy and temperate. They are not rich but have sufficient for comfort. But they need assurance of security, that they and their children may enjoy the fruits of their labors. To give them this security a second class of citizens is created. A body of men is set apart to have arms and war for its profession. Its members are chosen as boys for bravery and enterprise and trained and disciplined in barracks and on athletic fields. They live apart from the rest of the community and devote themselves entirely to their calling. They are taught to combine courage with gentleness, the duties of a police force with those of an army. To enemies they must be formidable, but to their fellow countrymen protective and helpful, trusty watchdogs of the state and not wolves. From this class of public-spirited soldiers and guardians rises in due time the third and smallest class, the rulers and magistrates of the state.

At this point in the dialogue we realize that Plato has passed from describing an ordinary Greek community to planning an ideal state. His bold, courteous, and responsible soldier class is an ideal aristocracy, like nothing then existing in any Greek commonwealth, resembling most, of course, the Spartan nobility but without the harsh Spartan characteristics. For the benefit of democratic Athenians he now explains that not every citizen is fitted for a public office. Some men are made of gold, some of iron, and some of earth. All are better and happier when doing just the things for which they are individually qualified. Not, however—and here he becomes, as he admits, audacious—that mere differences of physique or sex should be taken as denoting necessarily inferiority in mental endowment. "Women," for instance, "are the same in kind as men." Though in general tending to be inferior, yet "many women are in many things superior to many men." They may be musical, philosophical, skillful in healing disease, able executives. Girls, therefore, should receive the same education and training, intellectual and physical, as boys and be granted the same opportunity to rise to high position in the state. In Plato's time the well-bred, respectable Athenian woman spent her life in almost Oriental seclusion in the women's quarters of her father's or her husband's house. The tragedy writer, Euripides, had put into the mouth of his barbarian heroine, Medea, a fierce complaint of the injustices of a woman's lot. The comedian Aristophanes had produced two half burlesque appeals for women's participation in politics. But as far as we know, Plato was the first to argue seriously that women should share as equals with men in the public life of the state.Having dared this much, Plato piles one audacity on another, eugenics on women's rights. No considerations of ingrained habit or traditional morality deter him now from building his ideal state logically and scientifically to the last detail. If the life of the community is to be maintained at the highest possible level, every effort must be made to provide the best possible leaders. In other words, leaders must be bred systematically from the best available human stock. Yet how can the best men and women of each generation at the height of their vigor be used for the production of children and yet be protected from the petty distractions and cares of a family, that will inevitably interfere with their services to the state? How can the partiality and favoritism that invariably accompany the family hereditary system be eliminated from the choice and training of rulers, and character and talent be made the only qualifications that count?

And here we arrive at Plato's famous proposal for community of wives and children in the guardian and ruling classes. The men and women whose lives are spent in public duty live all, like the soldiers, in public dormitories, eat in common dining-halls and own no private property whatever. From time to time a committee of elders arrange a set of matings between those whom they judge best matched and suited to become parents. Each mating is a matter of religious ceremony but temporary, for the purpose of child production only. The children born of these unions are taken at once from their mothers, who then are free to return to their work. Their offspring are brought up in state nurseries with the greatest skill and attention. They are the children of the state, no child knowing his mother or father or known to them, no distinction of birth setting one above another. As they grow up, they are solicitously watched, trained and tested to ensure that each receives exactly the education for which he is naturally adapted. If among these offspring of the choicest and best one proves mean-spirited, timid, or dull, he is removed from the nursery and placed in the family of a farmer, shopkeeper, or sailor, to learn a less rigorous profession. If, on the other hand, a golden child is found in a worker's family, he is taken from home and brought up with the best. It is understood that the well-being of the entire state depends on the scrupulousness with which the sifting and rearing of these children is carried out; for a state is what its rulers make it.

At great length Plato discusses the education to be given the gifted girls and boys of his select group. He does not aim to fill their minds with a mass of miscellaneous factual information, such as that which the children in our modern schools are expected to acquire. Instead he would teach them first physical poise and grace of manner, standards of brave and sincere conduct, and reverence for the gods. His curriculum begins with grammar and music, in which are included literature and history. From these the child gathers a knowledge of the illustrious men and deeds of the past and a conception of life and duty. Poets, however, like the mighty Homer, who tell of unworthy acts of the gods, are banned. The child's thoughts are not to be sullied by the immoralities of the old myths. The music is all to be of the heroic, inspiriting sort. From it the child learns rhythm and harmony of movement and gentleness of soul. Voluptuous or riotous music, that lulls the listener to dreams of indolence or intoxicates him with sensual delight, is strictly forbidden. As the child grows tall and strong, he passes into the hands of gymnastic and athletic trainers, who develop in him physical vigor and endurance, temperate habits of food and drink, and a spirit of fearlessness and self-control.

Thus far Plato's ideal education is not very unlike that which was actually given to wellborn Athenian boys in his time, except that they were fed from infancy on stories from Homer and exposed to whatever might be the harmful effects of love ditties and drinking songs. But for the best of his children who give promise of true talent for leadership this kind of education is barely the beginning. They have next to take all the mathematics available in that day, arithmetic and geometry, plane and solid, studied not only from the applied, practical point of view but also from the purely theoretical. Here starts their training in reasoning power and in perception of invisible, abstract law. After mathematics comes astronomy, which means the principles of number and form in motion, as exemplified in the visible orbits of the stars and in the ideal constitution of the heavens. At the age of twenty, the youths and maidens who have so far acquitted themselves most satisfactorily pass on to a still more advanced type of education. For study they take up what Plato calls dialectic, what we might call philosophical logic. Their minds, that have hitherto been occupied with separate sciences, now attempt by a method of questioning and criticism, analysis and synthesis, to rise to a grasp of general principles and to see the relations of each branch of knowledge to the rest. However, they start this process gradually, for young people are easily thrown off their balance by too sudden introduction to the excitements of free thought and speculation, and are apt to end by believing nothing at all. The intervals between study they spend at military camps and on campaign duty in the field, learning the soldier's trade and performing feats of daring and skill.

Ten years go by in this apprenticeship and then the best are ready for the highest reaches of philosophy and responsible posts in the state. For five years more they pursue their inquiries and researches to "the end of the intellectual world," until at length they arrive at a conception of the Idea of the Good, the supreme One, that like the sun in the sky is the cause and the light of all things below, both the world of Ideas and the world of sense. With its light to enlighten them, they serve for the next fifteen years in all the departments of state, leading armies, going on embassies, judging in courts, amassing the widest possible experience of men and affairs. Finally, at the age of fifty, those who have distinguished themselves throughout and given evidence of the ripest wisdom come to the end of their long preparation. In turn they undertake the chief command of the state, alternating, however, their periods of active ruling with other periods of retirement, to refresh themselves with lifting up their thoughts again to the universal Light, that by its radiant guidance they may order the state and the lives of the people in it. Never have these rulers handled silver or gold, owned houses or land, lest they should be tempted to become landlords and tyrants instead of guardians and saviors. "And when they have brought up in each generation others like themselves and left them to govern the state in their place, then they will depart to the islands of the Blest and dwell there and the city will honor them with public memorials and sacrifices."

In the seventh book of the Republic, Plato describes in one of his best known parables the life, as it must be, of the multitude of mankind. They sit as it were in the depths of a huge cave, their backs to the entrance, their faces toward the dark. Behind their backs within the cave a fire is burning that casts a fitful light around the den. Between the fire and the backs of the crowd artificial objects of all kinds, images of living things in wood and stone, are being passed continually to and fro. Their shadows are thrown by the fire on the wall toward which the eyes of the multitude are turned. Thus they stay, gazing at shadows all their lives, shadows distorted by the flickering flame. But to the multitude these shadows are realities, for they know no other. A few cavemen, however, have the curiosity and courage to turn their eyes from the phantoms that rivet the attention of the rest and make their way, blinking and dazzled at first, toward the glimmer of daylight at the cave's mouth, and so out into the world of living nature and the splendor of the sun. There they learn quickly to disdain the images and their shadows, and bask in the light of truth. But having learned this, they must not remain in the upper world, for they were "created not to please themselves." "Each of you, when his turn comes, must descend again into the general underground abode and get the habit of seeing in the dark. When you have acquired it, you will see ten thousand times better than the inhabitants of the den and you will know what the various images are and what they represent, because you have seen the beautiful and just and good in their truth. Then our state . . . will be a reality and not a dream only and be administered in spirit unlike that of other states, where men fight with one another over shadows and go mad in struggles for power."

To Plato then, as when he wrote the letter from which we quoted earlier, the crucial problem of all society was the problem of leadership. "Until philosophers are kings," he declares, "or the kings and princes of this world have the spirit and power of philosophy, and political authority and wisdom are united in one . . . cities will never have rest from their troubles—no, nor the human race, I believe." Poor, human race, to this day it still has more of the rulers who fight over shadows and go mad for power than of those who have the spirit of philosophy! But in the ideal state all rulers will be philosophers. They with their wisdom, the soldiers with their courage, the mass of workers with their thrift and temperance, each class contentedly engaged in the work for which it is best fitted, will compose a community rich in the crowning virtue of all, which is justice or the securing to every man and woman of what is his to have and do. Such a state will manifestly be happy above all others; for it will be at peace within itself and its laws will be laws in the true sense of the word, based on the natural and unvarying principles of reason and right. Similarly, the individual may obey the same principles and cultivate the same four virtues of wisdom, courage, temperance, and justice. He may set his own inner life in order, master his animal passions, and, at peace with himself, be happy and blessed as no disordered soul can be, however pampered by wealth or high estate.

But having enjoyed the perfection of his own creation, Plato turns from it to the actual world with a sigh. What good is there in existing states and systems of governments? What kinds of men now are making or marring their own and other men's lives? One by one he characterizes the current forms of political organization, pointing out their virtues and failings, and along with each the type of individual whose disposition and behavior correspond to the form of state under discussion. A monarchy, or rule of a noble king, and an aristocracy, or rule of the noblest class, are forms assumed by the ideal state and therefore likely to be happiest and best, just as a man is happiest when ruled by the noblest elements in himself.

Unfortunately, in this world of change and becoming, it is all too easy for even ideal states to deteriorate. The magistrates in charge grow careless and no longer enforce the laws for the breeding and training of children. The quality of the ruling stock declines. Its members gradually yield to the temptations of power and possession. They set up private families, acquire houses and lands, accumulate riches, and through their wealth dominate the state. It is then no longer an aristocracy but an oligarchy, ruled by a few in their own instead of the general interest. The men who control it, though outwardly respectable and dignified, are inwardly greedy misers. For a time the people endure their growing oppressiveness, the widening gap that separates the poor workers from their bloated masters, the increasing crowds of unemployed drones that prey on the state. But at last they rise in the name of liberty, eject the oligarchs, and establish a democracy or rule of the multitude for themselves.

On this democracy, however, Plato pours a flood of irony and derision, revealing plainly what a mockery the Athenian democracy in its decadence had seemed to him. It is "a charming form of government, full of variety and disorder, dispensing a sort of equality to equals and unequals alike." The young feel themselves on a level with the old. Teachers fear and flatter their scholars, scholars despise their teachers. Even "horses and asses have a way of marching along with all the rights and dignities of freemen. . . . Everything is just ready to burst with liberty." Citizens "chafe impatiently at the least touch of authority and at length, as you know, cease to pay any regard to laws, written or unwritten." The individual produced by such an environment drifts rudderless, at the mercy of every whim blowing him hither and yon, always looking for some new amusement and never satisfied long with any. But in time men grow disgusted with a freedom that spells mainly lawlessness and insecurity. They rush to enroll under a leader who presently appears, proclaiming himself their champion and deliverer, "kind and good to everyone." As soon, however, as he has made sure of his strength, he turns into a tyrant, ruling by bloodshed and terror. Such a man, who subjects both his people and his own spirit to his brutal lust for power at any price, is at once the most terrible and the most wretched of human beings and his government the lowest form of political degradation. There is left only a hope that some day a true statesman will rise and overthrow him and lead the harassed and suffering people back to a juster order.

But what, asks Plato, is a man to do who has tasted how sweet is philosophy and has known the folly of the multitude? He may try his utmost to make them see the better ways of wisdom but the more faithfully he does this, the more likely he is to arouse their fear and hatred. In their ignorance they will misunderstand him, turn on him, persecute him, even put him to death. (The reader recalls the fate of Socrates.) "No politician is honest, nor is there any champion of justice at whose side he may fight and be saved. Such a man may indeed be compared to one fallen among wild beasts. He will not join in the wickedness of his fellows, but single-handed he is unable to oppose all their fierce natures. So, seeing he can be of no help to the state or his friends, . . . he holds his peace and goes his own way. He is like one who in a storm of dust and sleet, which the driving wind hurries along, retires under the shelter of the wall . . . satisfied if only he can live his own life pure from wrong or unrighteousness and depart in peace and good will with bright hopes." The dark multitude in the cave may refuse to be helped.What, in that case, of the ideal state? Was it futile even to imagine it? No, for "in heaven . . . there is laid up a pattern of it, which whoever desires may behold and beholding may take up his abode there. . . . He will live after the manner of that city and have naught to do with any other." It is the shining city that every man may build for humanity in idea and in which he may dream that a wiser and braver race will some day, somewhere, come to dwell.

There have been criticisms of the Republic ever since it was written. Plato's pupil Aristotle, who also wrote a book on politics, said that it made the life of the rulers too hard, depriving them of all normal sources of happiness, families, private possessions, freedom to choose their own surroundings and occupations, pomps and decorations of office. Human nature, he thought, was bound to resent such restrictions, and if the rulers were unhappy, how could they make a happy state? Plato himself put the same objection into the lips of one of the speakers in the Republic. The rulers are like poor soldiers, kept forever at stern garrison duty. How can they be happy? The reply came at once. The aim of this state is "not the disproportionate happiness of one favored class but the greatest happiness of the whole."(Early utilitarianism - zzy) The rulers are not "peasants at a festival, rollicking through a season of revelry." Even so, to men and women of their high temperament and training their life will not be the hardship it seems to an ordinary, worldly-minded spectator. It has its rare compensations in the scope it offers for the exercise of their gifts in making life good for their fellowmen. In all probability they will prove to be the happiest of human beings.

In his old age Plato compiled a book of Laws for the government of what he called a second-best state, which, he admitted, would probably seem more practical to men at large than his ideal commonwealth. In this he omitted the most radical and visionary features of the ideal state, the community of wives, children, and property in the ruling class, the equal education and privileges of women. He restored the family as an institution for all citizens and put merely such limitation on property holdings as would prevent the development of extremes of wealth and poverty. He laid considerably more emphasis on the importance of law in the state and left less room for the exercise of the rulers' personal authority. His rulers, of course, were no longer ideal men. Possibly his experiences with Dionysius II had also made him wary of trusting too much to individuals in power. Aristotle's recommendation, when it came, was for a modified democracy, a constitutional government of the middle class.

Perhaps the nearest approach that has yet been made to a realization of Plato's scheme for the choice and training of rulers was the so-called Ottoman system, which for two hundred years furnished the founders of the Turkish Empire with soldiers and ministers that were the wonder and despair of Christian Europe. In any history of the Near East one may read how it was started by the Moslem conquerors of the Balkan peninsula and Asia Minor in the fourteenth century and how successfully it worked until, during the late sixteenth and seventeenth centuries, a slacker administration relaxed the rules forbidding marriage and hereditary offices. A Viennese ambassador to Constantinople, writing home, comments on the painful contrast between the Turkish practice of searching out and educating as the priceless treasures of the state their most promising boys, regardless of birth or race, and the Western concern for a fine horse, or hawk, or dog and neglect of all human youth save such as happened to be born to money or rank. That Plato might not have been altogether wrong in thinking that men and women of sufficiently generous disposition might be content to live cut off from the common run of experience and dedicated to some absorbing service we may guess from what we have ourselves seen of scientists, explorers, revolutionaries, and devotees of religion, to whom nothing matters in comparison with their ideal or their cause.

The dialogues of Plato, as we have said and as anyone may tell from even this brief and incomplete sketch, are the starting point of many of the important sciences and philosophies of our own day. To begin with, he was the first to lay down certain fundamental rules of logical reasoning. In the dialogues Socrates is represented as insisting on definition of terms, analysis of individual instances as a basis for generalization, the distinction between opinion or wishful thinking and knowledge, and between words and things. Plato's pupil Aristotle formulated logic into a definite science. Political theory, economics, sociology and esthetics all go back to Plato as to their founder. His Laws contain numerous detailed provisions for city planning, health regulation, business and administration in his "second-best state." Some of these were taken as models for legislation during the Alexandrian period that came after the Macedonian conquests in Greece, Asia, and Egypt. From the laws of that period the Romans borrowed certain features of their imperial codes. Accordingly, Plato has been called the father of European jurisprudence. The Romans also took over, with a few modifications, his program of youthful education and passed it on to the Middle Ages and beyond to the Renaissance. Literature, history, mathematics, and philosophy are still the traditional backbone of a Liberal Arts course. Women are now claiming the share in education and public life that Plato would have given them.

Finally, Plato was the father of all philosophers who explain our visible, restless world of mixed beauty and perversity by picturing behind it an invisible, creative spirit of intelligence, order, and comeliness, striving to impress itself upon reluctant clay. Man, being a compound of spirit and matter, can be trained from childhood to master the earthly passions that darken his vision and hold him down. He can learn to love goodness and develop his reason to see the law that has been working in our universe from the beginning. So having lived, at death he will fly away from the bodily prison house and return at last to the heaven whence he came. As for the individual, so for the community: there is an ideal life to be created here below, patterned on the principles of justice that are as immutable as those that govern the stars. According to these, no man, woman, or child shall be hindered from having what is his own to have and all shall live willingly together in peace. To Plato the ideal state was a city, a city walled and set in a green valley, like the Greek states he knew. So for centuries after him, when men turned from the tumults and disappointments of this world to hopes of a fairer world above the sky, they imagined it as a city, the city of God. In time the Christian church claimed a part in Plato, believing, though wrongly, that he had been taught these doctrines by the prophet Jeremiah in Egypt. He had, they said, a soul "naturally Christian."

For our book we have chosen five of the dialogues that have special interest for the general reader, using the translation made by Professor Jowett of Oxford. The Apology and Crito are the earliest of these dialogues. They are a part of Plato's first memorial to his master, his account of Socrates' words and bearing during his trial and imprisonment. The Phaedo and Symposium were written probably some years later. The dramatic interest still centers around the personality of Socrates but the ideas expressed include much that we are sure was Plato's own maturer thinking on the themes of death and the invisible world, human aspiration and love. In the Republic the chief speaker is still Socrates but the thought is wholly Platonic. It is the most comprehensive of the dialogues, in its views of the world above and below and its survey of human life in all its aspects, the life of the individual and of society. Because of their length, we have had to cut the Phaedo and the Republic, the former slightly and the latter to a larger extent. But the reader will nonetheless, we believe, find the line of the argument clear to follow. Plato in the body he will never discover among the friends who meet and talk so happily or so earnestly around the dinner table or in the prison cell. But Plato's mind he will learn to know a little as the creator of these immortal scenes at a time when the lights of his civilization seemed to be growing dim.

LOUISE R. LOOMIS - Introduction to Plato
