---
title: "ression into mythos and the value of it There is a aspect that of our minds"
tags: [fundamentals, mythos]
source: drawio
cell-id: "uMTBItHwGZwq3fhviun5-1609"
page: "Page-1"
---

[[Mythos]]

# ression into mythos and the value of it There is a aspect that of our minds

ression into mythos and the value of it There is a aspect that of our minds that I am trying to understand that signs value and mythos and story in differently understanding the truth and we can talk about that in in the sort of locus of control almost. right? We hear and prescribe agency differently to some degree, if we hear something like our friend is possessed by osias. Osias, the malevolent spirit of melancholy, right?  If you hear that you can go take action to drive out that spirit to exercise it where if we say my friends's a bit depressed. It's not really a call the action or an opportunity. It's a stating of fact. right?  And if you look at Glaster's choice theory, what we're saying is some degree is my friend is choosing to depress. And that is an inquiry It's a well, it's not necessarily action, it's a why is my friend choosing to breast? What about his world?  Is he moving away from that needs to do for his own in some sense, both or safety, they're all fundamentally saying the same thing whatever this idea or reality of I don't mean that like in part of each other, I mean I I don't know the words for what depression is emotion, mood, idea, reality, whatever depression really truly is we're trying a different angles throughout history. to understand it, to beat it, to overcome it, help other people overcome it, and mythos for a bunch of people, something in our minds, some filter, some some process, some upbringing, whatever. something in our nature or nurture responds to it differently responds to reality, whatever depression is differently is, we frame it as a possession. versus a choice versus just a state of being, a mood, and this in part is what when we discuss useful fictions like, you know porcupines and toilet quills or the gun is always loaded, like we've num people have talked about and trying to describe this useful fictions, useful stories, storytelling to some degree, those were sort of the same thing, mythos are our useful and useful variations on what is real that help us or inspire us to do something about it, to understand it more clearly analogy, right, is a a powerful tool for trying to convey an understanding or to understand something. It's a mythos. It's a story we tell ourselves to try to get to better understanding where convey and understanding. um all right I think that if you're talking to somebody like um to Peterson, you could say something along the lines of fuck, lost it. is the filter in which our souls and interpret the divide don't stare directly at the sun, you need something in the way because it's too bright that bright that that something in the way is in a sense mythos, but through mythos we can still sort of look at the sun.  We don't want to directly stare at it, but with help with story or a filter of truth we can get close and so the Jordan Peterson's the Youngs and the world that value this, the the homer, the poet the Greek poetics even, right? Like what they're saying is mythos is the tool to help us in a better sense of truth, and by truth they mean divine, and so it gets interpreted too Mythos is the tool to help us see the face of God. Right?  Where if you're talking to someone closer to aristotle, maybe even what you might say is storytop us understand. the nature of existence and the truth about ourselves. and they're pretty much exactly synonymous. give you can agree with the premise or not, but those two statements stories help us understand right and this is why you can talk about uh there's a specific guy that has a great lectures on YouTube about this um Michael sir SUGURUE. I don't know how you Michael Serey? um sir Serru anyway, I'm as you can see language, but Michael Sergu has a as a lecture on Plato's Republic and he talks about at the end are in part not just how wait is a master of Logos, but he's a master of mythos.  He walks you through. this mythology of Socrates, and frames the conversation around how uh absolutely fascinating how the memory side of my brain trying to retrieve stuff directly in interferes with my processing of understanding. So that's where all these presentations are coming out. It's absolutely fascinating how they are in my mind at least seem to be direct conflict with with the things. anyway, um really points the interiorization of ideas so you can play with them and how important that is. but he points to the fact that or he supposes he puts on to Plato.  He builds a mythos around Plato even that what's so great about Plato, why why Plato is great a mythos is that the characters in the story represent the states of change of the city. where their personality, their behavior, over the course of the dialogue, changes in accordance with or the characters represent that the different city states the different ways in which we could. uh structure who has power are directly render the characters and their changes are represented that within it. You can believe you can just put this on Plato and it could be true that he did all of this, or it could be a mythos that Michael and his interpretation of it of his analysis of it is creating and it kind of doesn't matter which is more true, right? We can take Michael's analysis of it and the mythos he puts around Plato. as a mythos or the story, the the ideas the analysis he puts around Plato and ascribe that to what Plato's actual intention was.  In these characters, or you can take as analysis as a mythos of Plato's intent. and either way it's fascinating, which adds this whole wrinkle to orange. I art is the mediums of messages, it is mythos, almost exclusively, art is mythos. It is real art is trying to write something to convey a message to somebody else or have an effort message to somebody else. um sometimes just as a reminder, but sometimes they change something in the arts to say, try to say something about these forces of existence, these spirits, these gods uh, these concepts that because we don't fully understand them yet, it''s trying to help us to. and in this case, micro's analysis ofA.  Isn't itself? Or know what type of art I I meanalytical art or rhetorical art? But the point being mythos, the world in which Jordan Peterson's homers maybe to some degree Plato lived in, but that Aristotle does much less some ability to speak to us about what is true or the divine in a way that as some utility.  The danger of it, of course, is that people take it as is not what it is. right? People take to today that the Greek gods according to Homer came down and were on the battlefields at Troy, right? um because it literally says that so if you read it literally without disunderstanding of mythos present in the text, you can quickly lose sight of its value and misinterpreted into something I feel like it very clearly was not meant to be and then people were going to say well but how can you interpret this myth?  How are you right in your analysis of this myth and what is actually trying to say so the danger of mythos? is the removal from reality that prevents it from being passed down? effectively because it requires an interpretation of itself.  It requires an interpretation of itself, it's not loos, it's not quite what is true. It's already a filter and then there's an additional filter because you have to try to understand what is beyond the filter, which is the problem with all language and as I'm going through Nicomeanethics again, right? Like the translation I'm reading used words like science when it doesn't mean even the word science today is attached to so many concepts.  I read it every time and I'm taken aback because I know it doesn't mean the scientific method. It doesn't mean reason, which we're using science to mean both those things currently. You mean it to clear thought, thisological process, and we mean it to mean the results of the epistemological process or reason in knowledge, so we're using it to mean knowledge, methodology and reason all at the same time. and maybe witness was translated or interpreted into the version I'm reading.  Science was a term that was more clearly attached to a specific concept, but because that I later have to interpret it through the concepts I attached to the term, there's a mythos to it even, right? It's it's I don't know how to read the ancient Greek and even if I did permanology is in a way a myththos. You have to go through layers of definition to get to truth.  What is science? Well, in this case, I'm interpreting it as in part because the specifically the Greek org is a pistome, knowledge, pemology. This is where we get this idea of knowledge as a pistome. from Greek idea. and that's a different concept than other things we might attach to science, potentially like techne or methodology or reason.  And many been interpreting epistome to what I consider to be knowledges about existence and and I'm I'm ascribing a meaning to facts. So we're just layers and layers of interpretation, um and some of us seem to be better at navigating this. It might relate to systems thinking. the ability to bring order to chaos, right?  Here is all of this truth out there that we're trying to shape and understand. It's chaotic. And if we can put the right definitions on it, we can harness that truth for, you know, a better life. harness reality to build a more just world, um in addition to just understanding reality.  There's the scientists and engineers of it. The social sciences and social engineering to build that better world. And the people that are working off of bad science like we just generally have right now in the social sciences. get to this problem of the social engineering and fuck us because the science itself was bad because it's not real knowledge.  Mythos back.
